packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/02-guides/03-call-and-participant-state.mdx, before:

---
title: Call & Participant State
description: How the state is exposed
---

You can access call, participant and client state using hooks. These hooks are reactive (their value is updated on WebSocket events and API calls).

## Call state

To observe call state you need to provide a `Call` instance to the [`StreamCall` component](../../ui-components/core/stream-call).

Let's see an example where we use the `useCall`, `useCallCallingState` and `useParticipants` hooks to display some basic information about the call:

```tsx
import { Call, useCall, useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let call: Call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyCallUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
}

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const call = useCall();

  const { useCallCallingState, useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const callingState = useCallCallingState();
  const participants = useParticipants();

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Call: {call?.cid}</div>
      <div>State: {callingState}</div>
      <div>Participants: {participants.length}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This approach makes it possible to access the call state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

The `StreamCall` component uses the `StreamCallProvider` under the hood.

Here is an excerpt of the available call state hooks:

| Name                              | Description                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useCall`                         | The `Call` instance that is registered with `StreamCall`. You need the `Call` instance to initiate API calls. |
| `useCallBlockedUserIds`           | The list of blocked user IDs.                                                                                 |
| `useCallCallingState`             | Provides information about the call state. For example, `RINGING`, `JOINED` or `RECONNECTING`.                |
| `useCallCreatedAt`                | The time the call was created.                                                                                |
| `useCallCreatedBy`                | The user that created the call.                                                                               |
| `useCallCustomData`               | The custom data attached to the call.                                                                         |
| `useCallEgress`                   | The egress information of the call.                                                                           |
| `useCallEndedBy`                  | The user that ended the call.                                                                                 |
| `useCallIngress`                  | The ingress information of the call.                                                                          |
| `useCallMembers`                  | The list of call members                                                                                      |
| `useCallSession`                  | The information for the current call session.                                                                 |
| `useCallSettings`                 | The settings of the call.                                                                                     |
| `useCallStartedAt`                | The actual start time of the current call session.                                                            |
| `useCallStartsAt`                 | The scheduled start time of the call.                                                                         |
| `useCallStatsReport`              | When stats gathering is enabled, this observable will emit a new value at a regular (configurable) interval.  |
| `useCallUpdatedAt`                | The time the call was last updated.                                                                           |
| `useDominantSpeaker`              | The participant that is the current dominant speaker of the call.                                             |
| `useHasOngoingScreenShare`        | It will return `true` if at least one participant is sharing their screen.                                    |
| `useHasPermissions`               | Returns `true` if the local participant has all the given permissions.                                        |
| `useIsCallBroadcastingInProgress` | It's `true` if the call is being broadcasted.                                                                 |
| `useIsCallLive`                   | It's `true` if the call is currently live.                                                                    |
| `useIsCallRecordingInProgress`    | It's' `true` if the call is being recorded.                                                                   |
| `useIsCallTranscribingInProgress` | It's `true` if the call is being transcribed.                                                                 |
| `useOwnCapabilities`              | The capabilities of the local participant.                                                                    |

In your IDE of choice, you can see the full list if you destructure the `useCallStateHooks` object:

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const {
  useCallMembers,
  useDominantSpeaker,
  useParticipants,
  useLocalParticipant,
  useIsCallRecordingInProgress,
  // ...
} = useCallStateHooks();
```

## Participant state

If you want to display information about the joined participants of the call you can use these hooks:

| Name                           | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useLocalParticipant`          | The local participant is the logged-in user.                                                                                                                           |
| `useRemoteParticipants`        | All participants except the local participant.                                                                                                                         |
| `useParticipants`              | All participants, including local and remote participants.                                                                                                             |
| `useParticipantCount`          | The approximate participant count of the active call. This includes the [anonymous users](../client-auth/#anonymous-users) as well, it is computed on the server-side. |
| `useAnonymousParticipantCount` | The approximate participant count of anonymous users in the active call.                                                                                               |

```tsx
import { useCallStateHooks, StreamCall } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let call: call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyCallUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
}

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const { useLocalParticipant, useParticipantCount } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participantCount = useParticipantCount();
  const localParticipant = useLocalParticipant();

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Number of participants: {participantCount}</div>
      <div>Session ID: {localParticipant.sessionId}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

The `StreamVideoParticipant` object contains the following information:

| Name                      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user`                    | The user object for this participant.                                       |
| `publishedTracks`         | The track types the participant is currently publishing                     |
| `joinedAt`                | The time the participant joined the call.                                   |
| `connectionQuality`       | The participant's connection quality.                                       |
| `isSpeaking`              | It's `true` if the participant is currently speaking.                       |
| `isDominantSpeaker`       | It's `true` if the participant is the current dominant speaker in the call. |
| `audioLevel`              | The audio level of the participant.                                         |
| `audioStream`             | The published audio `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `videoStream`             | The published video `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `screenShareStream`       | The published screen share `MediaStream`.                                   |
| `isLocalParticipant`      | It's `true` if the participant is the local participant.                    |
| `pin`                     | Holds pinning information.                                                  |
| `reaction`                | The last reaction this user has sent to this call.                          |
| `viewportVisibilityState` | The viewport visibility state of the participant.                           |

The `StreamVideoLocalParticipant` has these additional properties:

| Name                  | Description                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `audioDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected audio input device.  |
| `videoDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected video input device.  |
| `audioOutputDeviceId` | The device ID of the currently selected audio output device. |

## Client state

To observe client state you need to provide a `StreamVideoClient` instance to the `StreamVideo` context provider.
If you want to observe the connected user you can use the `useConnectedUser` hook.

Let's see an example:

```tsx
import {
  useConnectedUser,
  StreamVideoClient,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let client: StreamVideoClient;

  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <MyHeader />
    </StreamVideo>
  );
}

const MyHeader = () => {
  const user = useConnectedUser();
  return <div>{user ? `Logged in: ${user.name}` : 'Logged out'}</div>;
};
```

This approach makes it possible to access the client state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

Here are the list of client-state hooks:

| Name                   | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useStreamVideoClient` | The `StreamVideoClient` instance.                                                                                                           |
| `useConnectedUser`     | Returns the connected user.                                                                                                                 |
| `useCalls`             | A list of all notifications about created calls. These calls can be outgoing (I have called somebody) or incoming (somebody has called me). |

The `UserResponse` contains the following properties:

| Name         | Description                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `created_at` | The time the user was created.                        |
| `custom`     | Custom user data.                                     |
| `deleted_at` | The time the user was deleted.                        |
| `devices`    | The registered push notification devices of the user. |
| `id`         | The id of the user.                                   |
| `image`      | The profile image of the user.                        |
| `name`       | The name of the user.                                 |
| `role`       | The role of the user.                                 |
| `teams`      | The teams the user belongs to.                        |
| `updated_at` | The time when the user was updated.                   |

Commit message:

feat(Call Preview): Support for call thumbnails (#1099)
Adds support for call thumbnails.

### Implementation notes
- Adds new `CallPreview` component in the React SDK
- Adds `call.bindCallThumbnailElement(imgElement)` API for Plain-JS SDK
- Adds sample integration in Pronto
- Adds documentation

### Breaking changes
- `call.broadcasting_started` is renamed to `call.hls_broadcasting_started`
- `call.broadcasting_stopped` is renamed to `call.hls_broadcasting_stopped`

The corresponding TypeScript type definitions are renamed accordingly as well.

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/02-guides/03-call-and-participant-state.mdx, after:

---
title: Call & Participant State
description: How the state is exposed
---

You can access call, participant and client state using hooks. These hooks are reactive (their value is updated on WebSocket events and API calls).

## Call state

To observe call state you need to provide a `Call` instance to the [`StreamCall` component](../../ui-components/core/stream-call).

Let's see an example where we use the `useCall`, `useCallCallingState` and `useParticipants` hooks to display some basic information about the call:

```tsx
import { Call, useCall, useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let call: Call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyCallUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
}

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const call = useCall();

  const { useCallCallingState, useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const callingState = useCallCallingState();
  const participants = useParticipants();

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Call: {call?.cid}</div>
      <div>State: {callingState}</div>
      <div>Participants: {participants.length}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

This approach makes it possible to access the call state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

The `StreamCall` component uses the `StreamCallProvider` under the hood.

Here is an excerpt of the available call state hooks:

| Name                              | Description                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useCall`                         | The `Call` instance that is registered with `StreamCall`. You need the `Call` instance to initiate API calls. |
| `useCallBlockedUserIds`           | The list of blocked user IDs.                                                                                 |
| `useCallCallingState`             | Provides information about the call state. For example, `RINGING`, `JOINED` or `RECONNECTING`.                |
| `useCallCreatedAt`                | The time the call was created.                                                                                |
| `useCallCreatedBy`                | The user that created the call.                                                                               |
| `useCallCustomData`               | The custom data attached to the call.                                                                         |
| `useCallEgress`                   | The egress information of the call.                                                                           |
| `useCallEndedBy`                  | The user that ended the call.                                                                                 |
| `useCallIngress`                  | The ingress information of the call.                                                                          |
| `useCallMembers`                  | The list of call members                                                                                      |
| `useCallSession`                  | The information for the current call session.                                                                 |
| `useCallSettings`                 | The settings of the call.                                                                                     |
| `useCallStartedAt`                | The actual start time of the current call session.                                                            |
| `useCallStartsAt`                 | The scheduled start time of the call.                                                                         |
| `useCallStatsReport`              | When stats gathering is enabled, this observable will emit a new value at a regular (configurable) interval.  |
| `useCallThumbnail`                | The thumbnail of the call.                                                                                    |
| `useCallUpdatedAt`                | The time the call was last updated.                                                                           |
| `useDominantSpeaker`              | The participant that is the current dominant speaker of the call.                                             |
| `useHasOngoingScreenShare`        | It will return `true` if at least one participant is sharing their screen.                                    |
| `useHasPermissions`               | Returns `true` if the local participant has all the given permissions.                                        |
| `useIsCallBroadcastingInProgress` | It's `true` if the call is being broadcasted.                                                                 |
| `useIsCallLive`                   | It's `true` if the call is currently live.                                                                    |
| `useIsCallRecordingInProgress`    | It's' `true` if the call is being recorded.                                                                   |
| `useIsCallTranscribingInProgress` | It's `true` if the call is being transcribed.                                                                 |
| `useOwnCapabilities`              | The capabilities of the local participant.                                                                    |

In your IDE of choice, you can see the full list if you destructure the `useCallStateHooks` object:

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const {
  useCallMembers,
  useDominantSpeaker,
  useParticipants,
  useLocalParticipant,
  useIsCallRecordingInProgress,
  // ...
} = useCallStateHooks();
```

## Participant state

If you want to display information about the joined participants of the call you can use these hooks:

| Name                           | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useLocalParticipant`          | The local participant is the logged-in user.                                                                                                                           |
| `useRemoteParticipants`        | All participants except the local participant.                                                                                                                         |
| `useParticipants`              | All participants, including local and remote participants.                                                                                                             |
| `useParticipantCount`          | The approximate participant count of the active call. This includes the [anonymous users](../client-auth/#anonymous-users) as well, it is computed on the server-side. |
| `useAnonymousParticipantCount` | The approximate participant count of anonymous users in the active call.                                                                                               |

```tsx
import { useCallStateHooks, StreamCall } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let call: call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyCallUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
}

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const { useLocalParticipant, useParticipantCount } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participantCount = useParticipantCount();
  const localParticipant = useLocalParticipant();

  return (
    <div>
      <div>Number of participants: {participantCount}</div>
      <div>Session ID: {localParticipant.sessionId}</div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

The `StreamVideoParticipant` object contains the following information:

| Name                      | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user`                    | The user object for this participant.                                       |
| `publishedTracks`         | The track types the participant is currently publishing                     |
| `joinedAt`                | The time the participant joined the call.                                   |
| `connectionQuality`       | The participant's connection quality.                                       |
| `isSpeaking`              | It's `true` if the participant is currently speaking.                       |
| `isDominantSpeaker`       | It's `true` if the participant is the current dominant speaker in the call. |
| `audioLevel`              | The audio level of the participant.                                         |
| `audioStream`             | The published audio `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `videoStream`             | The published video `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `screenShareStream`       | The published screen share `MediaStream`.                                   |
| `isLocalParticipant`      | It's `true` if the participant is the local participant.                    |
| `pin`                     | Holds pinning information.                                                  |
| `reaction`                | The last reaction this user has sent to this call.                          |
| `viewportVisibilityState` | The viewport visibility state of the participant.                           |

The `StreamVideoLocalParticipant` has these additional properties:

| Name                  | Description                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `audioDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected audio input device.  |
| `videoDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected video input device.  |
| `audioOutputDeviceId` | The device ID of the currently selected audio output device. |

## Client state

To observe client state you need to provide a `StreamVideoClient` instance to the `StreamVideo` context provider.
If you want to observe the connected user you can use the `useConnectedUser` hook.

Let's see an example:

```tsx
import {
  useConnectedUser,
  StreamVideoClient,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export default function App() {
  let client: StreamVideoClient;

  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <MyHeader />
    </StreamVideo>
  );
}

const MyHeader = () => {
  const user = useConnectedUser();
  return <div>{user ? `Logged in: ${user.name}` : 'Logged out'}</div>;
};
```

This approach makes it possible to access the client state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

Here are the list of client-state hooks:

| Name                   | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `useStreamVideoClient` | The `StreamVideoClient` instance.                                                                                                           |
| `useConnectedUser`     | Returns the connected user.                                                                                                                 |
| `useCalls`             | A list of all notifications about created calls. These calls can be outgoing (I have called somebody) or incoming (somebody has called me). |

The `UserResponse` contains the following properties:

| Name         | Description                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `created_at` | The time the user was created.                        |
| `custom`     | Custom user data.                                     |
| `deleted_at` | The time the user was deleted.                        |
| `devices`    | The registered push notification devices of the user. |
| `id`         | The id of the user.                                   |
| `image`      | The profile image of the user.                        |
| `name`       | The name of the user.                                 |
| `role`       | The role of the user.                                 |
| `teams`      | The teams the user belongs to.                        |
| `updated_at` | The time when the user was updated.                   |
