packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/participants/video-preview.mdx, before:

---
id: video-preview
title: Video preview
---

import DisabledVideoPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/disabled-video-preview.png';
import NoCameraPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/no-camera-found-video-preview.png';
import StartingCameraPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/starting-camera-video-preview.png';

The aim of the `VideoPreview` component is to offer a glimpse into how we appear to others before joining a call. This component is suitable for call lobby scenario. The component allows for UI customisation and at the same time handles the starting, playing and error handling logic for us.

You can customize what is displayed, when:

1. the video is starting to play
2. the video is disabled
3. camera device could not be found

The custom components should be passed to `VideoPreview` props. See the [Props](./#props) section for more details.

## General usage

```tsx
import { Call, VideoPreview, StreamCall } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyVideoPreview = () => {
  let call: Call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <VideoPreview />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `DisabledVideoPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered when user turns off the video.

<img
  src={DisabledVideoPreview}
  alt="Default component for DisabledVideoPreview"
  width={300}
/>

### `mirror`

| Type                     | Default |
| ------------------------ | ------- |
| `boolean` \| `undefined` | `true`  |

Enforces mirroring of the video on the X axis.

### `NoCameraPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered when no camera devices are available.

<img
  src={NoCameraPreview}
  alt="Default component for NoCameraPreview"
  width={300}
/>

### `StartingCameraPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered above the BaseVideo until the video is ready (meaning until the play event is emitted).

<img
  src={StartingCameraPreview}
  alt="Default component for StartingCameraPreview"
  width={300}
/>

## Customization

If the [built-in props](#props) don't provide enough flexibility for you, you can create your own video preview component.
You can rely on the state and API provided by the [`Camera API`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone).

Commit message:

fix(video-preview): accept `className` prop (#1166)
Exposes a `className` prop on the `VideoPreview` component that allows
easier styling with CSS-in-js libraries as `styled-components`.

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/participants/video-preview.mdx, after:

---
id: video-preview
title: Video preview
---

import DisabledVideoPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/disabled-video-preview.png';
import NoCameraPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/no-camera-found-video-preview.png';
import StartingCameraPreview from '../../assets/03-ui-components/video-preview/starting-camera-video-preview.png';

The aim of the `VideoPreview` component is to offer a glimpse into how we appear to others before joining a call. This component is suitable for call lobby scenario. The component allows for UI customisation and at the same time handles the starting, playing and error handling logic for us.

You can customize what is displayed, when:

1. the video is starting to play
2. the video is disabled
3. camera device could not be found

The custom components should be passed to `VideoPreview` props. See the [Props](./#props) section for more details.

## General usage

```tsx
import { Call, VideoPreview, StreamCall } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyVideoPreview = () => {
  let call: Call;

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <VideoPreview />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `className`

| Type                    | Default     |
| ----------------------- | ----------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` | `undefined` |

Additional CSS class to add to the component container.

### `mirror`

| Type                     | Default |
| ------------------------ | ------- |
| `boolean` \| `undefined` | `true`  |

Enforces mirroring of the video on the X axis.

### `DisabledVideoPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered when user turns off the video.

<img
  src={DisabledVideoPreview}
  alt="Default component for DisabledVideoPreview"
  width={300}
/>

### `NoCameraPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered when no camera devices are available.

<img
  src={NoCameraPreview}
  alt="Default component for NoCameraPreview"
  width={300}
/>

### `StartingCameraPreview`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Component rendered above the BaseVideo until the video is ready (meaning until the play event is emitted).

<img
  src={StartingCameraPreview}
  alt="Default component for StartingCameraPreview"
  width={300}
/>

## Customization

If the [built-in props](#props) don't provide enough flexibility for you, you can create your own video preview component.
You can rely on the state and API provided by the [`Camera API`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone).
