packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/call/call-recording-list.mdx, before:

---
id: call-recordings-list
title: Call recordings list
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import EmptyCallRecordingList from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-recording-list/empty-call-recording-list.png';
import LoadingCallRecordingList from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-recording-list/loading-call-recording-list.png';

The [`CallRecordingList`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/react-sdk/src/components/CallRecordingList) component is designed to display the list of recordings. `CallRecordingList` is a composite component rendering:

- `CallRecordingListHeader`
- `CallRecordingListItem`
- `EmptyCallRecordingList`
- `LoadingCallRecordingList`

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: EmptyCallRecordingList,
      caption: 'Empty call recording list',
      alt: 'Empty call recording list',
    },
    {
      image: LoadingCallRecordingList,
      caption: 'Loading call recording list',
      alt: 'Loading call recording list',
    },
  ]}
/>

## General usage

```tsx
import { CallRecording, CallRecordingList } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const CallRecordings = () => {
  let callRecordings: CallRecording[];

  return <CallRecordingList callRecordings={callRecordings} />;
};
```

:::note
The `CallRecordingList` component just displays the data. It does not retrieve the call recordings data. See the [call recording guide](../../../advanced/recording) to learn more about retrieving the call recording data.
:::

## Call recording list components

The components rendered by [`CallRecordingList`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/react-sdk/src/components/CallRecordingList) can be overridden through `CallRecordingListProps`. The default components descriptions follow.

### CallRecordingListHeader

Component rendering title and call recordings count as well as a button to query the latest state of call recordings.

#### Props

| Name             | Description                    | Type              |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------- |
| `callRecordings` | Array of CallRecording objects | `CallRecording[]` |

### CallRecordingListItem

Component displays download link, copy-to-clipboard link button and recording date as a recording identifier.

#### Props

| Name            | Description                       | Type            |
| --------------- | --------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `callRecording` | CallRecording object to represent | `CallRecording` |

### EmptyCallRecordingList

Component displayed instead of `CallRecordingListItem` list if there are no recordings associated with the given call.

#### Props

None

### LoadingCallRecordingList

Component displayed while the latest call recordings data is queried. The default implementation renders the current call recording list and a loading indicator at the bottom.

#### Props

| Name             | Description                                     | Type              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| `callRecordings` | Array of currently loaded CallRecording objects | `CallRecording[]` |

## Props

### `callRecordings`

| Type              |
| ----------------- |
| `CallRecording[]` |

Array of CallRecording objects to be displayed.

### `CallRecordingListHeader`

| Type                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType<CallRecordingListHeaderProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default header implementation.

### `CallRecordingListItem`

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType<CallRecordingListItemProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default list item implementation.

### `EmptyCallRecordingList`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default empty list component implementation.

### `loading`

| Type                     |
| ------------------------ |
| `boolean` \| `undefined` |

Signals that a request for new list of CallRecording object has been initiated.

### `LoadingCallRecordingList`

| Type                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType<LoadingCallRecordingListProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to be rendered when `loading` is true.

## Customization

The `CallRecordingList` component accepts UI components as [props](#props-4) to override parts of the displayed UI. It's also possible to build your own call recordings UI from scratch.

Commit message:

feat!: Call State reorganization (#931)
Reorganizes how Call State is updated and exposed to the users.

## Breaking Changes
1. Call State hooks aren't exposed on the root export of the SDK. Use
the `useCallStateHooks()` helper instead. See #917
2. `useCallMetadata()` is dropped. As an alternative, use the
fine-grained hooks as `useCallCustomData()`, `useCallCreatedBy()` etc...
3. `useCallRecordings()` is dropped. The integrators should manage the
list of recordings themselves
4. `call.data` is removed -> use the corresponding `call.state.*`
properties instead

### Implementation notes
We used to have different modules that update the call state as part of
`client/events` package. Now, the majority of the state update happens
inside the `CallState` object.

---------

Co-authored-by: MartinCupela <32706194+MartinCupela@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/call/call-recording-list.mdx, after:

---
id: call-recordings-list
title: Call recordings list
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import EmptyCallRecordingList from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-recording-list/empty-call-recording-list.png';
import LoadingCallRecordingList from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-recording-list/loading-call-recording-list.png';

The [`CallRecordingList`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/react-sdk/src/components/CallRecordingList) component is designed to display the list of recordings. `CallRecordingList` is a composite component rendering:

- `CallRecordingListHeader`
- `CallRecordingListItem`
- `EmptyCallRecordingList`
- `LoadingCallRecordingList`

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: EmptyCallRecordingList,
      caption: 'Empty call recording list',
      alt: 'Empty call recording list',
    },
    {
      image: LoadingCallRecordingList,
      caption: 'Loading call recording list',
      alt: 'Loading call recording list',
    },
  ]}
/>

## General usage

```tsx
import { CallRecording, CallRecordingList } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyCallRecordings = () => {
  let callRecordings: CallRecording[];

  return <CallRecordingList callRecordings={callRecordings} />;
};
```

:::note
The `CallRecordingList` component just displays the data. It does not retrieve the call recordings data. See the [call recording guide](../../../advanced/recording) to learn more about retrieving the call recording data.
:::

## Call recording list components

The components rendered by [`CallRecordingList`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/react-sdk/src/components/CallRecordingList) can be overridden through `CallRecordingListProps`. The default components descriptions follow.

### CallRecordingListHeader

Component rendering title and call recordings count as well as a button to query the latest state of call recordings.

#### Props

| Name             | Description                                                                               | Type              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| `callRecordings` | Array of CallRecording objects                                                            | `CallRecording[]` |
| `onRefresh`      | Callback to invoke once the "refresh" button is clicked. Usually, you'll reload the data. | `() => void`      |

### CallRecordingListItem

Component displays download link, copy-to-clipboard link button and recording date as a recording identifier.

#### Props

| Name            | Description                       | Type            |
| --------------- | --------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `callRecording` | CallRecording object to represent | `CallRecording` |

### EmptyCallRecordingList

Component displayed instead of `CallRecordingListItem` list if there are no recordings associated with the given call.

#### Props

None

### LoadingCallRecordingList

Component displayed while the latest call recordings data is queried. The default implementation renders the current call recording list and a loading indicator at the bottom.

#### Props

| Name             | Description                                     | Type              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| `callRecordings` | Array of currently loaded CallRecording objects | `CallRecording[]` |

## Props

### `callRecordings`

| Type              |
| ----------------- |
| `CallRecording[]` |

Array of CallRecording objects to be displayed.

### `CallRecordingListHeader`

| Type                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType<CallRecordingListHeaderProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default header implementation.

### `CallRecordingListItem`

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType<CallRecordingListItemProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default list item implementation.

### `EmptyCallRecordingList`

| Type                           |
| ------------------------------ |
| `ComponentType` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to replace the default empty list component implementation.

### `loading`

| Type                     |
| ------------------------ |
| `boolean` \| `undefined` |

Signals that a request for new list of CallRecording object has been initiated.

### `LoadingCallRecordingList`

| Type                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType<LoadingCallRecordingListProps>` \| `undefined` |

Custom component to be rendered when `loading` is true.

## Customization

The `CallRecordingList` component accepts UI components as [props](#props-4) to override parts of the displayed UI. It's also possible to build your own call recordings UI from scratch.

### `onRefresh`

| Type         |
| ------------ |
| `() => void` |

An callback to invoke once the "refresh" button is clicked. Usually, you'll reload the data.
