packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/call/incoming-call.mdx, before:

---
id: incoming-call
title: IncomingCall
---

IncomingCall represents the incoming call state and the UI when a user receives a call from someone else.

It represents the details of the user calling you, allows accepting or rejecting the call, etc.

It is customizable using our UI cookbook guide on [Custom Incoming/Outgoing Call components](../../05-ui-cookbook/05-incoming-and-outcoming-call.mdx).

![Preview of the IncomingCall component.](../../assets/04-ui-components/incoming-call.png)

## General Usage

```tsx
import {
  CallingState,
  IncomingCall,
  useCall,
  useCalls,
  useCallCallingState,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const CallPanel = () => {
  const call = useCall();
  const isCallCreatedByMe = call?.data?.created_by.id === call?.currentUserId;

  const callingState = useCallCallingState();

  // Display the incoming call if the call state is RINGING and the call is not created by me, i.e., recieved from others.
  if (callingState === CallingState.RINGING && !isCallCreatedByMe) {
    return <IncomingCall />;
  }
};

const Call = () => {
  const calls = useCalls();

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call[0]}>
      <CallPanel />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `acceptCallButton`

Prop for the accept call button that contains all the necessary elements to make it functional.

| Type                                    |
| --------------------------------------- |
| [AcceptCallButton](#acceptcallbutton-1) |

### `rejectCallButton`

| Type                                    |
| --------------------------------------- |
| [RejectCallButton](#rejectcallbutton-1) |

Prop for the reject call button that contains all the necessary elements to make it functional.

## Button Prop

### `AcceptCallButton`

| Name             | Description                                             | Type                        |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `onPressHandler` | Callback to be called when the accept button is pressed | `() => void` \| `undefined` |

This overrides the default `onPress` event of the accept button.

### `RejectCallButton`

| Name             | Description                                             | Type                        |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `onPressHandler` | Callback to be called when the reject button is pressed | `() => void` \| `undefined` |

This overrides the default `onPress` event of the reject button.

Commit message:

feat(react-native): RingingCallContent and related improvements (#976)
This PR focuses on introducing a unified component similar to
https://staging.getstream.io/video/docs/android/ui-components/call/ringing-call/
for RN SDK for ringing mode.

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/call/incoming-call.mdx, after:

---
id: incoming-call
title: IncomingCall
---

import CallTopView from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/call-top-view.mdx';

IncomingCall represents the incoming call state and the UI when a user receives a call from someone else.

It represents the details of the user calling you, allows accepting or rejecting the call, etc.

It is customizable using our UI cookbook guide on [Custom Incoming/Outgoing Call components](../../05-ui-cookbook/05-incoming-and-outcoming-call.mdx).

![Preview of the IncomingCall component.](../../assets/04-ui-components/incoming-call.png)

## General Usage

```tsx
import {
  CallingState,
  IncomingCall,
  useCall,
  useCalls,
  useCallCallingState,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const CallPanel = () => {
  const call = useCall();
  const isCallCreatedByMe = call?.data?.created_by.id === call?.currentUserId;

  const callingState = useCallCallingState();

  // Display the incoming call if the call state is RINGING and the call is not created by me, i.e., recieved from others.
  if (callingState === CallingState.RINGING && !isCallCreatedByMe) {
    return <IncomingCall />;
  }
};

const Call = () => {
  const calls = useCalls();

  return (
    <StreamCall call={call[0]}>
      <CallPanel />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `onAcceptCallHandler`

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `() => void` \| `undefined` |

Handler to be executed when an incoming call is accepted.

### `onRejectCallHandler`

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `() => void` \| `undefined` |

Handler to be executed when an incoming call is rejected.

### `CallTopView`

<CallTopView />

### `IncomingCallControls`

Prop to customize the Incoming call controls in the `IncomingCall` component.

| Type                          | Default Value                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType`\| `undefined` | [`IncomingCallControls`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/react-native-sdk/src/components/Call/CallControls/IncomingCallControls.tsx) |
