packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/call-layout.mdx, before:

---
id: call-layout
title: Call layout
---

The SDK comes with two built-in call layouts.

The `PaginatedGridLayout` displays [participants](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view) in a grid that is paginated.

![Preview of the PaginatedGridLayout component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/paginated-grid.png)

The `SpeakerLayout` displays [participants](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view) in a configuration where the dominant speaker/shared screen is in focus and other participants are displayed in a smaller bar.

![Preview of the SpeakerLayout component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/speaker-view.png)

## General usage

Both layouts gather all necessary [state information via hooks](../../../guides/call-and-participant-state), so you don't need to provide state-related props:

```tsx
import '@stream-io/video-react-sdk/dist/css/styles.css';
import {
  CallControls,
  StreamCall,
  StreamTheme,
  StreamVideo,
  SpeakerLayout,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyApp = () => {
  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <StreamTheme>
        <StreamCall call={call}>
          //highlight-next-line
          <SpeakerLayout />
          <CallControls />
        </StreamCall>
      </StreamTheme>
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

```tsx
import '@stream-io/video-react-sdk/dist/css/styles.css';
import {
  CallControls,
  StreamCall,
  StreamTheme,
  StreamVideo,
  PaginatedGridLayout,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyApp = () => {
  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <StreamTheme>
        <StreamCall call={call}>
          //highlight-next-line
          <PaginatedGridLayout />
          <CallControls />
        </StreamCall>
      </StreamTheme>
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

## Customization

Both [built-in layouts](#built-in-layouts) allow for some customization of the layout via props. However, it's also possible to create your own layout, see our [Custom Call Layout guide](../../../ui-cookbook/video-layout) for more information.

## Built-in Layouts

### `PaginatedGridLayout`

#### Props

| Name                      | Description                                                                                            | Type                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `groupSize`               | The number of participants to display per page                                                         | `number` \| `undefined`                                                                                |
| `excludeLocalParticipant` | Whether to exclude the local participant from the grid                                                 | `boolean` \| `undefined`                                                                               |
| `pageArrowsVisible`       | Turns on/off the pagination arrows                                                                     | `boolean` \| `undefined`                                                                               |
| `ParticipantViewUI`       | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `VideoPlaceholder`        | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  |

### `SpeakerLayout`

#### Props

| Name                         | Description                                                                                                                                                | Type                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `participantsBarPosition`    | The position of the participants who are not in focus, the default is `bottom`. Providing `null` will hide the bar                                         | `top` \| `bottom` \| `left` \| `right` \| `null`                                                       |
| `ParticipantViewUISpotlight` | The participant UI for the spotlight view, [see `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui)          | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `ParticipantViewUIBar`       | The participant UI for the participants in the bar, [see `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `VideoPlaceholder`           | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)                                                      | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  |

Commit message:

docs: Unify UI components structure (#742)
- [Unify the structure of UI components
pages](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/pull/571#issue-1732498263)
- `Customization` section is moved to end of page (it makes more sense
to write about that after `Props`)
- `StreamVideo` page is added

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/call-layout.mdx, after:

---
id: call-layout
title: Call layout
---

The SDK comes with two built-in call layouts.

The `PaginatedGridLayout` displays [participants](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view) in a grid that is paginated.

![Preview of the PaginatedGridLayout component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/paginated-grid.png)

The `SpeakerLayout` displays [participants](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view) in a configuration where the dominant speaker/shared screen is in focus and other participants are displayed in a smaller bar.

![Preview of the SpeakerLayout component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/speaker-view.png)

## General usage

Both layouts gather all necessary [state information via hooks](../../../guides/call-and-participant-state), so you don't need to provide state-related props:

```tsx
import '@stream-io/video-react-sdk/dist/css/styles.css';
import {
  CallControls,
  StreamCall,
  StreamTheme,
  StreamVideo,
  SpeakerLayout,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyApp = () => {
  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <StreamTheme>
        <StreamCall call={call}>
          //highlight-next-line
          <SpeakerLayout />
          <CallControls />
        </StreamCall>
      </StreamTheme>
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

```tsx
import '@stream-io/video-react-sdk/dist/css/styles.css';
import {
  CallControls,
  StreamCall,
  StreamTheme,
  StreamVideo,
  PaginatedGridLayout,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyApp = () => {
  return (
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <StreamTheme>
        <StreamCall call={call}>
          //highlight-next-line
          <PaginatedGridLayout />
          <CallControls />
        </StreamCall>
      </StreamTheme>
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

## Built-in Layouts

### `PaginatedGridLayout`

#### Props

| Name                      | Description                                                                                            | Type                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `groupSize`               | The number of participants to display per page                                                         | `number` \| `undefined`                                                                                |
| `excludeLocalParticipant` | Whether to exclude the local participant from the grid                                                 | `boolean` \| `undefined`                                                                               |
| `pageArrowsVisible`       | Turns on/off the pagination arrows                                                                     | `boolean` \| `undefined`                                                                               |
| `ParticipantViewUI`       | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `VideoPlaceholder`        | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  |

### `SpeakerLayout`

#### Props

| Name                         | Description                                                                                                                                                | Type                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `participantsBarPosition`    | The position of the participants who are not in focus, the default is `bottom`. Providing `null` will hide the bar                                         | `top` \| `bottom` \| `left` \| `right` \| `null`                                                       |
| `ParticipantViewUISpotlight` | The participant UI for the spotlight view, [see `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui)          | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `ParticipantViewUIBar`       | The participant UI for the participants in the bar, [see `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#participantviewui) |
| `VideoPlaceholder`           | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)                                                      | [See `ParticipantView` documentation](../../../ui-components/core/participant-view/#videoplaceholder)  |

## Customization

If the [built-in layouts](#built-in-layouts) aren't what you're looking for, it's also possible to create your own layout, see our [Custom Call Layout guide](../../../ui-cookbook/video-layout) for more information.
