packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/participant-view.mdx, before:

---
id: participant-view
title: Participant
---

The `ParticipantView` component is a core component that renders a participant's video and plays the participant's audio.

It can toggle between video and avatar based on the participant's video state. It displays information about the participant, their device settings and connection quality. It also provides action buttons (for example, to pin the participant).

The `ParticipantView` component is used to build up the [different call layouts](../../../ui-components/core/call-layout).

To optimize performance,

- the component won't stream video for participants that are not visible in the viewport
- for visible participants it will request the appropriate video track quality and resolution (dynascale)

![Preview of the Call controls component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/participant.png)

:::note

Please note that we suggest not to create a custom `ParticipantView` component as it contains complex, low-level logic related to performance. Please refer to the [Customization section](#customization) to see how you can tailor the component to your needs.

:::

## General usage

You can use the `ParticipantView` component to create your own call layout:

```tsx
import { ParticipantView, useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const { useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participants = useParticipants();
  return (
    <>
      {participants.map((p) => (
        // highlight-next-line
        <ParticipantView participant={p} key={p.sessionId} />
      ))}
    </>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `participant`

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

The participant whose video/audio stream we want to play.

### `ParticipantViewUI`

| Type                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType` \| `ReactElement` \| `null` |

Override the default UI for rendering participant information/actions.

### `VideoPlaceholder`

| Type                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType` \| `ReactElement` \| `null` |

Override the default UI that's visible when a participant turned off their video.

### `videoMode`

| Type                          |
| ----------------------------- |
| `video` \| `screen` \| 'none' |

The kind of video stream to play for the given participant. The default value is `video`. You can use `none` if you're building an audio-only call.

### `className`

| Type                    |
| ----------------------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` |

Custom class applied to the root DOM element.

### `refs`

| Type                                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `{setVideoElement: Function, setVideoPlaceholderElement: Function}` \| `undefined` |

An object with set functions meant for exposing the video and video placeholder elements to the integrators.

### `muteAudio`

| Type      |
| --------- |
| `boolean` |

This prop is only useful for advanced use-cases (for example building your own paginated layout). When set to `true` it will mute the given participant's audio stream on the client side. The local participant is always muted.

## Customization

The [ParticipantView customizations guide](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-view-customizations) tells all the important informiation about the customization options. It's useful when you want to attach custom event handlers to these elements.

We also have additional guides focusing on specific parts:

- [Video placeholder](../../../ui-cookbook/video-placeholder)
- [Connection Quality Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/connection-quality-indicator)
- [Connection Unstable Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/connection-unstable)
- [Custom Label](../../../ui-cookbook/custom-label)

Commit message:

feat(Call): Dynascale support for Plain-JS SDK (#914)
Introduces `call.bindVideoElement` and `call.bindAudioElement` methods
which apply dynascale handlers to the provided video and audio elements,
simplifies SDK-specific implementations.

### Breaking Changes
- `call.viewportTracker` has been replaced with `call.dynascaleManager`
- `call.updateSubscriptionsPartial`
- `video` and `screen` kinds are deprecated and will be removed soon.
Please switch to `videoTrack` or `screenShareTrack`
- `<Audio />` component:
- `audioStream` prop is dropped and now it requires a `participant` prop
- `sinkId` doesn't have to be provided anymore, as our SDK handles this
- `<Video />`
- `kind` prop has been replaced with `trackType`. Accepted values:
`videoTrack`, `screenShareTrack` and `none`
- `<ParticipantView />`
- `videoMode` has been renamed to `trackType`. Accepted values:
`videoTrack`, `screenShareTrack` and `none`

---------

Co-authored-by: Oliver Lazoroski <oliver.lazoroski@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Zita Szupera <szuperaz@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Zita Szupera <zita.szupera@getstream.io>
Co-authored-by: Khushal Agarwal <khushal.agarwal987@gmail.com>

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/participant-view.mdx, after:

---
id: participant-view
title: Participant
---

The `ParticipantView` component is a core component that renders a participant's video and plays the participant's audio.

It can toggle between video and avatar based on the participant's video state. It displays information about the participant, their device settings and connection quality. It also provides action buttons (for example, to pin the participant).

The `ParticipantView` component is used to build up the [different call layouts](../../../ui-components/core/call-layout).

To optimize performance,

- the component won't stream video for participants that are not visible in the viewport
- for visible participants it will request the appropriate video track quality and resolution (dynascale)

![Preview of the Call controls component.](../../assets/03-ui-components/participant.png)

:::note

Please note that we suggest not to create a custom `ParticipantView` component as it contains complex, low-level logic related to performance. Please refer to the [Customization section](#customization) to see how you can tailor the component to your needs.

:::

## General usage

You can use the `ParticipantView` component to create your own call layout:

```tsx
import { ParticipantView, useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const MyCallUI = () => {
  const { useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participants = useParticipants();
  return (
    <>
      {participants.map((p) => (
        // highlight-next-line
        <ParticipantView participant={p} key={p.sessionId} />
      ))}
    </>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `participant`

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

The participant whose video/audio stream we want to play.

### `ParticipantViewUI`

| Type                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType` \| `ReactElement` \| `null` |

Override the default UI for rendering participant information/actions.

### `VideoPlaceholder`

| Type                                        |
| ------------------------------------------- |
| `ComponentType` \| `ReactElement` \| `null` |

Override the default UI that's visible when a participant turned off their video.

### `trackType`

| Type                                         |
| -------------------------------------------- |
| `videoTrack` \| `screenShareTrack` \| `none` |

The kind of video stream to play for the given participant. The default value is `video`. You can use `none` if you're building an audio-only call.

### `className`

| Type                    |
| ----------------------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` |

Custom class applied to the root DOM element.

### `refs`

| Type                                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `{setVideoElement: Function, setVideoPlaceholderElement: Function}` \| `undefined` |

An object with set functions meant for exposing the video and video placeholder elements to the integrators.

### `muteAudio`

| Type      |
| --------- |
| `boolean` |

This prop is only useful for advanced use-cases (for example building your own paginated layout). When set to `true` it will mute the given participant's audio stream on the client side. The local participant is always muted.

## Customization

The [ParticipantView customizations guide](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-view-customizations) tells all the important information about the customization options. It's useful when you want to attach custom event handlers to these elements.

We also have additional guides focusing on specific parts:

- [Video placeholder](../../../ui-cookbook/video-placeholder)
- [Connection Quality Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/connection-quality-indicator)
- [Connection Unstable Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/connection-unstable)
- [Custom Label](../../../ui-cookbook/custom-label)
