packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/stream-call.mdx, before:

---
id: stream-call
title: StreamCall
---

The `<StreamCall />` component is a declarative component wrapper around `Call` objects. It utilizes the `StreamCallProvider` to make the [call and its state](../../../guides/call-and-participant-state) available to all child components.

Additionally, the `<StreamCall />` component sets up a [`MediaDevicesProvider`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone) instance, making device management (microphone, camera) easier for integrators.

## General usage

```tsx
import {
  StreamCall,
  useCreateStreamVideoClient,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export const App = () => {
  const call = /* ... */;

  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `call`

| Type   |
| ------ |
| `Call` |

### `mediaDevicesProviderProps`

| Type                                       |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| `MediaDevicesProviderProps` \| `undefined` |

An optional props to pass to the [`MediaDevicesProvider`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone).

Commit message:

docs: add prop description to client and call prop of StreamVideo and StreamCall

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/core/stream-call.mdx, after:

---
id: stream-call
title: StreamCall
---

The `<StreamCall />` component is a declarative component wrapper around `Call` objects. It utilizes the `StreamCallProvider` to make the [call and its state](../../../guides/call-and-participant-state) available to all child components.

Additionally, the `<StreamCall />` component sets up a [`MediaDevicesProvider`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone) instance, making device management (microphone, camera) easier for integrators.

## General usage

```tsx
import {
  StreamCall,
  useCreateStreamVideoClient,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export const App = () => {
  const call = /* ... */;

  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <StreamCall call={call}>
      <MyUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `call`

| Type   |
|--------|
| `Call` |

This props internally provides the call instance to the [`StreamCallProvider`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/react-bindings/src/contexts/StreamCallContext.tsx#L24) and thereby having it passed in the `StreamCall` component makes the call instance available to all of its child components.

### `mediaDevicesProviderProps`

| Type                                       |
|--------------------------------------------|
| `MediaDevicesProviderProps` \| `undefined` |

An optional props to pass to the [`MediaDevicesProvider`](../../../guides/camera-and-microphone).
