packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/01-setup/01-introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction about Stream's video SDK
slug: /
---

Welcome to the Stream Video SDK - a comprehensive toolkit designed to help you swiftly implement features such as video calling, audio calling, audio rooms, and livestreaming within your app. Our goal is to ensure an optimal developer experience that enables your application to go live within days.

Our React SDK comes with user-friendly UI components and React hooks and context providers, making your development process seamless. Moreover, all calls are routed through Stream's global edge network, thereby ensuring lower latency and higher reliability due to proximity to end users.

If you're new to Stream Video SDK, we recommend starting with the following three tutorials:

- [Video & Audio Calling Tutorial](./tutorials/video-calling)
- [Audio Room Tutorial](./tutorials/audio-room)
- [Livestream Tutorial](./tutorials/livestream)

After the tutorials, the documentation explains how to use:

- Core concepts such as [initiating a call](./core/joining-and-creating-calls/), switching the [camera](./core/camera-and-microphone/) view, and more
- Effective utilization of our UI components
- Insights on building your own UI with our [UI Cookbook](./ui-cookbook/overview/)

It also explains advanced features such as:

- [Picture in picture support](./advanced/picture-in-picture-mode)
- [Ringing](./core/joining-and-creating-calls/)
- [Recording](./advanced/recording)
- [Broadcasting](./advanced/broadcasting)
- [Requesting & Granting permissions](./ui-cookbook/permission-requests/)
- [Audio & Video Filters](./advanced/apply-video-filters/)

If you feel like anything is missing or could be improved, please don't hesitate to [contact us](https://getstream.io/contact/). We're happy to help.

Commit message:

docs(react-native): improve introduction guide

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/01-setup/01-introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction about Stream's video SDK
slug: /
---

Welcome to the Stream Video React Native SDK - a comprehensive toolkit designed to help you swiftly implement features such as video calling, audio calling, audio rooms, and livestreaming within your app. Our goal is to ensure an optimal developer experience that enables your application to go live within days.

Our React Native SDK comes with user-friendly UI components, easy to use React hooks and context providers/wrappers, making your development process seamless. Moreover, all calls are routed through Stream's global edge network, thereby ensuring lower latency and higher reliability due to proximity to end users.

If you're new to Stream React Native Video SDK, we recommend starting with the following three tutorials, dependending upon your requirements:

- [Video & Audio Calling Tutorial](./tutorials/video-calling)
- [Audio Room Tutorial](./tutorials/audio-room)
- [Livestream Tutorial](./tutorials/livestream)

After the tutorials, the documentation explains how to use:

- Core concepts such as [initiating a call](./core/joining-and-creating-calls/), switching the [camera](./core/camera-and-microphone/) view, and more
- Effective utilization of our UI components
- Insights on building your own UI with our [UI Cookbook](./ui-cookbook/overview/)

It also explains advanced features such as:

- [Ringing/Calls](./core/joining-and-creating-calls/)
- [Requesting & Granting permissions](./ui-cookbook/permission-requests/)
- [Participants Layout Switching](./ui-cookbook/runtime-layout-switching/)
- Friendly support for [Push notifications](./advanced/push-notifications/), [deep linking](./advanced/deeplinking/) and Reconnection of calls.

If you feel like anything is missing or could be improved, please don't hesitate to [contact us](https://getstream.io/contact/). We're happy to help.
