packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/01-setup/02-installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Install the SDK for video calling
---

### Prerequisites

First things first, make sure you have set up the development environment for React Native.
You can find the official guide [here](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup).

### Add Stream's Video SDK and its peer dependencies

In order to install the Stream Video SDK and all its peer dependencies run the following command in your terminal of choice:

```bash
yarn add @stream-io/video-react-native-sdk react-native-webrtc react-native-device-info react-native-incall-manager react-native-svg text-encoding-polyfill react-native-url-polyfill intl-pluralrules @react-native-community/netinfo @notifee/react-native
```

The following dependencies require additional configuration steps for the installation to be successful and all their functionalities to be available.
Please follow the links below to complete the installation process:

- `react-native-webrtc` installation on [Android](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/master/Documentation/AndroidInstallation.md) and [iOS](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/master/Documentation/iOSInstallation.md).
- `react-native-svg` be aware of [compatibility](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-svg#supported-react-native-versions) with RN versions and [troubleshooting](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-svg#troubleshooting) steps.

So what did we install precisely?

- `@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk` (SVRN) is Stream's Video SDK which contains UI components, hooks and util functions that will enable audio/video calls.
- `react-native-webrtc` is a WebRTC module for React Native, SVRN depends on this dependency, it's components and utilities to render audio/video tracks and interact with the phone's media devices.
- `react-native-device-info` is responsible for retrieving device info and sending it to the Stream Video servers.
- `react-native-incall-manager` handles media-routes/sensors/events during an audio/video call.
- `react-native-svg` provides SVG support to React Native, SVRN's components and it's icons are reliant on this dependency.
- `text-encoding-polyfill` a polyfill for the `Encoding Living Standard` API, allowing encoding and decoding of textual data to and from Typed Array buffers for binary data in React Native.
- `react-native-url-polyfill` is an implementation of the `WHATWG URL` Standard optimized for React Native.
- `intl-pluralrules` - allows i18n with support for pluralization based on [`Intl.Plurales`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/PluralRules).
- `@react-native-community/netinfo` - is used to detect the device's connectivity state, type and quality.
- `@notifee/react-native` - is used to keep calls alive in the background on Android.

### Optional peer dependencies

Some of the optional features we provide require additional dependencies to be installed in order to work properly.

#### Ringing flow

The ringing flow is a feature that allows you to render a native ringer when the app is in background/dead mode.
To enable this feature you need to install the following dependencies:

- `react-native-callkeep` utilises CallKit (iOS) and ConnectionService (Android). SVRN's uses this dependency to render native ringers and handle accepting/declining a call when the app is in background/dead mode.
- `@react-native-firebase/app` and `@react-native-firebase/messaging` to receive notifications on Android.
- `@react-native-voip-push-notification` to receive notifications on iOS.

More about how to enable this feature can be found [in our push notification guide](../../advanced/push-notifications/).

### Initial app setup: register polyfills

Add the following imports and statements to your `index.js` file in the project's root.

```tsx
/** Initialize text encoder/decoder polyfill */
import 'text-encoding-polyfill';
/** Initialize URL polyfill */
import 'react-native-url-polyfill/auto';
/** i18next polyfill to handle intl format for pluralization. For more info see https://www.i18next.com/misc/json-format#i-18-next-json-v4 */
import 'intl-pluralrules';
import { registerGlobals } from 'react-native-webrtc';
...

// We're registering globals, because our video JS client is serving SDKs that use browser based webRTC functions.
// This will result in creation of 2 global objects: `window` and `navigator`
// Further [reading](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/16cff1523da457dbcc27bb0744ee2bad3a987c41/Documentation/BasicUsage.md#registering-globals) about this process
if (Platform.OS !== 'web') {
  registerGlobals();
}
```

### Declaring Permissions

Making video or audio calls requires the usage of the device's camera and microphone accordingly. Therefore, before you can make and answer calls, you need to request permission to use them within your application. First, in both platforms we must declare the permissions.

#### iOS

Add the following keys and values to `Info.plist` file at a minimum:

- `Privacy - Camera Usage Description` - "`<Your_app_name>` requires camera access to capture and transmit video"
- `Privacy - Microphone Usage Description` - "`<Your_app_name>` requires microphone access to capture and transmit audio"

#### Android

In `AndroidManifest.xml` add the following permissions before the `<application>` section.

```xml
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.autofocus" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.audio.output" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.microphone" />

<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CHANGE_NETWORK_STATE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MODIFY_AUDIO_SETTINGS" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

If you plan to also support Bluetooth devices then also add the following.

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH" android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADMIN" android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT" />
```


:::note
The SDK needs to know to the state of camera and microphone permissions to get video and audio streams. We can inform the states to the SDK through the following:

```ts
import { StreamVideoRN } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

StreamVideoRN.setPermissions({
  isCameraPermissionGranted: true,
  isMicPermissionGranted: true,
});
```
:::

Commit message:

docs(react-native): improve introduction and installation guide (#835)
Co-authored-by: Santhosh Vaiyapuri <3846977+santhoshvai@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/01-setup/02-installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Install the SDK for video calling
---

Installation and usage of our React Native SDK is simple and involves the following steps:

### Prerequisites

First things first, make sure you have set up the development environment for React Native.
You can find the official guide [here](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup).

### Add Stream's Video SDK and its peer dependencies

In order to install the Stream Video React Native SDK, run the following command in your terminal of choice:

```bash
yarn add @stream-io/video-react-native-sdk
```

Stream Video React Native SDK requires installing some peer dependencies to provide you with a great calling experience. You can run the following command to install them:

```bash
yarn add react-native-webrtc react-native-device-info react-native-incall-manager react-native-svg text-encoding-polyfill react-native-url-polyfill intl-pluralrules @react-native-community/netinfo @notifee/react-native
```

The following dependencies require additional configuration steps for the installation to be successful and all their functionalities to be available.
Please follow the links below to complete the installation process:

- `react-native-webrtc` installation on [Android](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/master/Documentation/AndroidInstallation.md) and [iOS](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/master/Documentation/iOSInstallation.md).
- `react-native-svg` be aware of [compatibility](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-svg#supported-react-native-versions) with RN versions and [troubleshooting](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-svg#troubleshooting) steps.

So what did we install precisely?

- `@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk` (SVRN) is Stream's Video SDK which contains UI components, hooks and util functions that will enable audio/video calls.
- `react-native-webrtc` is a WebRTC module for React Native, SVRN depends on this dependency, it's components and utilities to render audio/video tracks and interact with the phone's media devices.
- `react-native-device-info` is responsible for retrieving device info and sending it to the Stream Video servers.
- `react-native-incall-manager` handles media-routes/sensors/events during an audio/video call.
- `react-native-svg` provides SVG support to React Native, SVRN's components and it's icons are reliant on this dependency.
- `text-encoding-polyfill` a polyfill for the `Encoding Living Standard` API, allowing encoding and decoding of textual data to and from Typed Array buffers for binary data in React Native.
- `react-native-url-polyfill` is an implementation of the `WHATWG URL` Standard optimized for React Native.
- `intl-pluralrules` - allows i18n with support for pluralization based on [`Intl.Plurales`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/PluralRules).
- `@react-native-community/netinfo` - is used to detect the device's connectivity state, type and quality.
- `@notifee/react-native` - is used to keep calls alive in the background on Android.

### Optional peer dependencies

Some of the optional features we provide require additional dependencies to be installed in order to work properly.

#### Ringing flow

The ringing flow is a feature that allows you to render a native ringer when the app is in background/dead mode.
To enable this feature you need to install the following dependencies:

- `react-native-callkeep` utilises CallKit (iOS) and ConnectionService (Android). SVRN's uses this dependency to render native ringers and handle accepting/declining a call when the app is in background/dead mode.
- `@react-native-firebase/app` and `@react-native-firebase/messaging` to receive notifications on Android.
- `@react-native-voip-push-notification` to receive notifications on iOS.

More about how to enable this feature can be found [in our push notification guide](../../advanced/push-notifications/).

### Initial app setup: register polyfills

Add the following imports and statements to your `index.js` file in the project's root.

```tsx
/** Initialize text encoder/decoder polyfill */
import 'text-encoding-polyfill';
/** Initialize URL polyfill */
import 'react-native-url-polyfill/auto';
/** i18next polyfill to handle intl format for pluralization. For more info see https://www.i18next.com/misc/json-format#i-18-next-json-v4 */
import 'intl-pluralrules';
import { registerGlobals } from 'react-native-webrtc';
...

// We're registering globals, because our video JS client is serving SDKs that use browser based webRTC functions.
// This will result in creation of 2 global objects: `window` and `navigator`
// Further [reading](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-webrtc/blob/16cff1523da457dbcc27bb0744ee2bad3a987c41/Documentation/BasicUsage.md#registering-globals) about this process
if (Platform.OS !== 'web') {
  registerGlobals();
}
```

### Declaring Permissions

Making video or audio calls requires the usage of the device's camera and microphone accordingly. Therefore, before you can make and answer calls, you need to request permission to use them within your application. First, in both platforms we must declare the permissions.

#### iOS

Add the following keys and values to `Info.plist` file at a minimum:

- `Privacy - Camera Usage Description` - "`<Your_app_name>` requires camera access to capture and transmit video"
- `Privacy - Microphone Usage Description` - "`<Your_app_name>` requires microphone access to capture and transmit audio"

#### Android

In `AndroidManifest.xml` add the following permissions before the `<application>` section.

```xml
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.autofocus" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.audio.output" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.microphone" />

<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CHANGE_NETWORK_STATE" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.MODIFY_AUDIO_SETTINGS" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

If you plan to also support Bluetooth devices then also add the following.

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH" android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_ADMIN" android:maxSdkVersion="30" />
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.BLUETOOTH_CONNECT" />
```


:::note
The SDK needs to know to the state of camera and microphone permissions to get video and audio streams. We can inform the states to the SDK through the following:

```ts
import { StreamVideoRN } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

StreamVideoRN.setPermissions({
  isCameraPermissionGranted: true,
  isMicPermissionGranted: true,
});
```
:::
