packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/06-advanced/03-events.mdx, before:

---
id: events
title: Events
description: How to listen to events
---

In most cases, you can simply use the [reactive state store](../../core/call-and-participant-state) to be notified about state changes.
However, for some advanced use cases, you might need to subscribe to the underlying WebSocket events.

## List of events

### Client events

Client events are always delivered if a user is connected to the client using the `connectUser` method.

The list of client events:

| Name               | Description                                                 |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `connection.ok`    | Fired when the authentication process finished successfully |
| `connection.error` | Fired when the WS connections fails                         |

### Call events

These events are related to a specific call. Some of these events are only delivered to clients that are watching the specific call. There are 3 ways to watch a call:

1. Call the `queryCalls` method with the `watch` option set to `true`:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.queryCalls({
    ...
    watch: true
});
```

2. Join a call:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.call('default', 'test-call').join();
```

3. Watch a call:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.call('default', 'test-call').getOrCreate();
// or
client.call('default', 'test-call').get();
```

The list of call events:

| Name                              | Description                                                    | Delivered to     |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `call.accepted`                   | A user accepts a notification to join a call                   | All call members |
| `call.blocked_user`               | A user is blocked from the call                                | Call watchers    |
| `call.created`                    | The call was created                                           | All call members |
| `call.ended`                      | The call was ended                                             | All call members |
| `call.hls_broadcasting_started`   | The call started to broadcast                                  | Call watchers    |
| `call.hls_broadcasting_stopped`   | The call stopped broadcasting                                  | Call watchers    |
| `call.live_started`               | The call left backstage mode                                   | Call watchers    |
| `call.member_added`               | One or more members were added to the call                     | All call members |
| `call.member_removed`             | One or more members were removed from the call                 | All call members |
| `call.member_updated`             | One or more members were updated                               | All call members |
| `call.member_updated_permission`  | One or more members' role was updated                          | All call members |
| `call.notification`               | A user is calling all call members                             | All call members |
| `call.permission_request`         | A user is requesting permissions                               | Call watchers    |
| `call.permissions_updated`        | A member's permissions were updated                            | Call watchers    |
| `call.reaction_new`               | A new reaction was sent                                        | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_failed`           | A recording failed                                             | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_ready`            | A recording is ready                                           | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_started`          | A recording has been started                                   | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_stopped`          | The recording was stopped                                      | Call watchers    |
| `call.rejected`                   | A user declined to join the call                               | All call members |
| `call.ring`                       | A user is calling all call members                             | All call members |
| `call.session_ended`              | A call session ended (all participants have left the call)     | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_participant_joined` | A participant joined to the call sessions                      | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_participant_left`   | A participant left a call session                              | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_started`            | A call session started (the first participant joined the call) | Call watchers    |
| `call.unblocked_user`             | A user is unblocked                                            | Call watchers    |
| `call.updated`                    | The call was updated                                           | Call watchers    |
| `custom`                          | Custom event                                                   | All call members |

## Listening to client and call events

You can use the `on` method of the `StreamVideoClient` instance to subscribe to client and call WebSocket events.

The `on` method takes the type of the event you want to subscribe to or the 'all' keyword indicating that you want to be notified about all events.

The event handler will receive an object with type [`StreamVideoEvent`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) that has a `type` attribute that tells the type of the event. The available event types are described by the [`EventTypes`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) type.

The `on` method returns a method that can be called to unsubscribe from WebSocket events.

Subscribing to all events:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

// Subscribe to all events
const unsubscribe = client.on('all', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  console.log(event);
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```

Subscribing to `call.created` events:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

// Subscribe to all events
const unsubscribe = client.on('call.created', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  if (event.type === 'call.created') {
    console.log(`Call created: ${event.call_cid}`);
  }
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```

## Listening to call events

You can use the `on` method of the `Call` instance to subscribe to WebSocket events belonging to a specific call.

The `on` method takes the type of the event you want to subscribe to.

The event handler will receive an object with type [`StreamCallEvent`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) that has a `type` attribute that tells the type of the event. The available event types are described by the [`CallEventTypes`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) type.

The `on` method returns a method that can be called to unsubscribe from WebSocket events.

Subscribing to `call.reaction_new` event.

```typescript
import { Call } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let call: Call;

// Subscribe to new reactions event
const unsubscribe = call.on('call.reaction_new', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  if (event.type === 'call.reaction_new') {
    console.log(`New reaction: ${event.reaction}`);
  }
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```

Commit message:

feat: mute screenshare_audio, update to the newest OpenAPI schema (#1148)
Allows remote muting of `screenshare_audio` tracks. Also, updates to the
newest OpenAPI schema (GetStream/protocol) that introduces `call.hls_broadcasting_failed` event.

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/06-advanced/03-events.mdx, after:

---
id: events
title: Events
description: How to listen to events
---

In most cases, you can simply use the [reactive state store](../../core/call-and-participant-state) to be notified about state changes.
However, for some advanced use cases, you might need to subscribe to the underlying WebSocket events.

## List of events

### Client events

Client events are always delivered if a user is connected to the client using the `connectUser` method.

The list of client events:

| Name               | Description                                                 |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `connection.ok`    | Fired when the authentication process finished successfully |
| `connection.error` | Fired when the WS connections fails                         |

### Call events

These events are related to a specific call. Some of these events are only delivered to clients that are watching the specific call. There are 3 ways to watch a call:

1. Call the `queryCalls` method with the `watch` option set to `true`:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.queryCalls({
    ...
    watch: true
});
```

2. Join a call:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.call('default', 'test-call').join();
```

3. Watch a call:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

client.call('default', 'test-call').getOrCreate();
// or
client.call('default', 'test-call').get();
```

The list of call events:

| Name                              | Description                                                    | Delivered to     |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `call.accepted`                   | A user accepts a notification to join a call                   | All call members |
| `call.blocked_user`               | A user is blocked from the call                                | Call watchers    |
| `call.created`                    | The call was created                                           | All call members |
| `call.ended`                      | The call was ended                                             | All call members |
| `call.hls_broadcasting_failed`    | The call failed to broadcast                                   | Call watchers    |
| `call.hls_broadcasting_started`   | The call started to broadcast                                  | Call watchers    |
| `call.hls_broadcasting_stopped`   | The call stopped broadcasting                                  | Call watchers    |
| `call.live_started`               | The call left backstage mode                                   | Call watchers    |
| `call.member_added`               | One or more members were added to the call                     | All call members |
| `call.member_removed`             | One or more members were removed from the call                 | All call members |
| `call.member_updated`             | One or more members were updated                               | All call members |
| `call.member_updated_permission`  | One or more members' role was updated                          | All call members |
| `call.notification`               | A user is calling all call members                             | All call members |
| `call.permission_request`         | A user is requesting permissions                               | Call watchers    |
| `call.permissions_updated`        | A member's permissions were updated                            | Call watchers    |
| `call.reaction_new`               | A new reaction was sent                                        | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_failed`           | A recording failed                                             | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_ready`            | A recording is ready                                           | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_started`          | A recording has been started                                   | Call watchers    |
| `call.recording_stopped`          | The recording was stopped                                      | Call watchers    |
| `call.rejected`                   | A user declined to join the call                               | All call members |
| `call.ring`                       | A user is calling all call members                             | All call members |
| `call.session_ended`              | A call session ended (all participants have left the call)     | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_participant_joined` | A participant joined to the call sessions                      | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_participant_left`   | A participant left a call session                              | Call watchers    |
| `call.session_started`            | A call session started (the first participant joined the call) | Call watchers    |
| `call.unblocked_user`             | A user is unblocked                                            | Call watchers    |
| `call.updated`                    | The call was updated                                           | Call watchers    |
| `custom`                          | Custom event                                                   | All call members |

## Listening to client and call events

You can use the `on` method of the `StreamVideoClient` instance to subscribe to client and call WebSocket events.

The `on` method takes the type of the event you want to subscribe to or the 'all' keyword indicating that you want to be notified about all events.

The event handler will receive an object with type [`StreamVideoEvent`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) that has a `type` attribute that tells the type of the event. The available event types are described by the [`EventTypes`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) type.

The `on` method returns a method that can be called to unsubscribe from WebSocket events.

Subscribing to all events:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

// Subscribe to all events
const unsubscribe = client.on('all', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  console.log(event);
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```

Subscribing to `call.created` events:

```typescript
import { StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let client: StreamVideoClient;

// Subscribe to all events
const unsubscribe = client.on('call.created', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  if (event.type === 'call.created') {
    console.log(`Call created: ${event.call_cid}`);
  }
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```

## Listening to call events

You can use the `on` method of the `Call` instance to subscribe to WebSocket events belonging to a specific call.

The `on` method takes the type of the event you want to subscribe to.

The event handler will receive an object with type [`StreamCallEvent`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) that has a `type` attribute that tells the type of the event. The available event types are described by the [`CallEventTypes`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/coordinator/connection/types.ts) type.

The `on` method returns a method that can be called to unsubscribe from WebSocket events.

Subscribing to `call.reaction_new` event.

```typescript
import { Call } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

let call: Call;

// Subscribe to new reactions event
const unsubscribe = call.on('call.reaction_new', (event: StreamVideoEvent) => {
  if (event.type === 'call.reaction_new') {
    console.log(`New reaction: ${event.reaction}`);
  }
});

// Unsubscribe
unsubscribe();
```
