packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/core/stream-video.mdx, before:

---
id: stream-video
title: StreamVideo
---

The `<StreamVideo />` provider makes the [client and its state](../../../core/call-and-participant-state) available to all child components and initializes [internationalization](../../../advanced/i18n/)

## General usage

```tsx
import { StreamVideo, StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

export const App = () => {
  const client = new StreamVideoClient(/* ... */);

  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <MyUI />
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `client`

| Type                |
| ------------------- |
| `StreamVideoClient` |

### `i18nInstance`

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `StreamI18n` \| `undefined` |

The `StreamI18n` instance to use, if `undefined` is provided, a new instance will be created. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).

### `language`

| Type                    | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` | en      |

The language to translate UI labels. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).

### `translationsOverrides`

| Type                             |
| -------------------------------- |
| `TranslationsMap` \| `undefined` |

Custom translations that will be merged with the defaults provided by the library. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).

Commit message:

docs: add prop description to client and call prop of StreamVideo and StreamCall

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/core/stream-video.mdx, after:

---
id: stream-video
title: StreamVideo
---

The `<StreamVideo />` provider makes the [client and its state](../../../core/call-and-participant-state) available to all child components and initializes [internationalization](../../../advanced/i18n/)

## General usage

```tsx
import { StreamVideo, StreamVideoClient } from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

export const App = () => {
  const client = new StreamVideoClient(/* ... */);

  return (
    // highlight-next-line
    <StreamVideo client={client}>
      <MyUI />
    </StreamVideo>
  );
};
```

## Props

### `client`

| Type                |
| ------------------- |
| `StreamVideoClient` |

This props internally provides the call instance to the [`StreamVideoProvider`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/react-bindings/src/contexts/StreamVideoContext.tsx#L26) and thereby having it passed in the `StreamVideo` component makes the client instance available to all of its child components.

### `i18nInstance`

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `StreamI18n` \| `undefined` |

The `StreamI18n` instance to use, if `undefined` is provided, a new instance will be created. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).

### `language`

| Type                    | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` | en      |

The language to translate UI labels. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).

### `translationsOverrides`

| Type                             |
| -------------------------------- |
| `TranslationsMap` \| `undefined` |

Custom translations that will be merged with the defaults provided by the library. For more information, see our [Internationalization guide](../../../advanced/i18n/).
