packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view.mdx, before:

---
id: floating-participant-view
title: FloatingParticipantView
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import CameraEnabled from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view/enabled.png';
import CameraDisabled from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view/disabled.png';
import ParticipantLabel from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-label.mdx';
import ParticipantReaction from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-reaction.mdx';
import ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-network-quality-indicator.mdx';
import ParticipantVideoFallback from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-video-fallback.mdx';
import VideoRenderer from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/video-renderer.mdx';
import ParticipantView from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-view.mdx';

FloatingParticipantView displays the local video stream of the local participant. It is a floating view that can be dragged in the call area.

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: CameraEnabled,
      caption: 'Floating Participant View Camera Enabled',
      alt: 'Floating Participant View Camera Enabled',
    },
    {
      image: CameraDisabled,
      caption: 'Floating Participant View Camera Disabled',
      alt: 'Floating Participant View Camera Disabled',
    },
  ]}
/>

When the video is muted, the video muted icon is shown in a disabled background.

## General Usage

In order to use the `FloatingParticipantView` as a standalone component, you should use the following code:

```tsx {4}
import {
  FloatingParticipantView,
  useCallStateHooks,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const App = () => {
  const { useLocalParticipant } = useCallStateHooks();
  const localParticipant = useLocalParticipant();
  return <FloatingParticipantView participant={localParticipant} />;
};
```

## Props

### `alignment`

Determines where the floating participant video will be placed initially.

| Type                                                    | Default value |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `top-left` \|`top-right`\|`bottom-left`\|`bottom-right` | `top-right`   |

### `participant`

The participant to be rendered in the `FloatingParticipantView`.

| Type                                                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts)\|`undefined` |

### `onPressHandler`

Handler used to handle actions on click of the participant view in FloatingParticipantView.

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `() => void` \| `undefined` |

### `style`

This prop is used to override the root container style of the component.

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ViewStyle](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props) |

### `ParticipantLabel`

<ParticipantLabel />

### `ParticipantReaction`

<ParticipantReaction />

### `ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator`

<ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator />

### `ParticipantVideoFallback`

<ParticipantVideoFallback />

### `ParticipantView`

<ParticipantView />

### `VideoRenderer`

<VideoRenderer />

Commit message:

feat(react-native): add ability to customize the objectFit for participant view (#1225)
The `objectFit` within the VideoRenderer was not customizable until now.
This PR intoduces ability to customize the same.

Eg:
```
  const CustomParticipantView = useCallback((props: ParticipantViewProps) => {
    return <ParticipantView objectFit="contain" {...props} />;
  }, []);

 <CallContent
        ParticipantView={CustomParticipantView}
      />
```


![Screenshot_1704449788](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/assets/39884168/73868ea5-9e15-45c8-8b33-294e33ac4f7e)

```
  const CustomParticipantView = useCallback((props: ParticipantViewProps) => {
    return <ParticipantView objectFit="cover" {...props} />;
  }, []);

 <CallContent
        ParticipantView={CustomParticipantView}
      />
```

![Screenshot_1704450055](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/assets/39884168/f814f0d7-a57b-477f-884e-59892470cd12)

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view.mdx, after:

---
id: floating-participant-view
title: FloatingParticipantView
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import CameraEnabled from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view/enabled.png';
import CameraDisabled from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/floating-participant-view/disabled.png';
import ParticipantLabel from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-label.mdx';
import ParticipantReaction from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-reaction.mdx';
import ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-network-quality-indicator.mdx';
import ParticipantVideoFallback from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-video-fallback.mdx';
import VideoRenderer from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/video-renderer.mdx';
import ParticipantView from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-view.mdx';

FloatingParticipantView displays the local video stream of the local participant. It is a floating view that can be dragged in the call area.

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: CameraEnabled,
      caption: 'Floating Participant View Camera Enabled',
      alt: 'Floating Participant View Camera Enabled',
    },
    {
      image: CameraDisabled,
      caption: 'Floating Participant View Camera Disabled',
      alt: 'Floating Participant View Camera Disabled',
    },
  ]}
/>

When the video is muted, the video muted icon is shown in a disabled background.

## General Usage

In order to use the `FloatingParticipantView` as a standalone component, you should use the following code:

```tsx {4}
import {
  FloatingParticipantView,
  useCallStateHooks,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const App = () => {
  const { useLocalParticipant } = useCallStateHooks();
  const localParticipant = useLocalParticipant();
  return <FloatingParticipantView participant={localParticipant} />;
};
```

## Props

### `alignment`

Determines where the floating participant video will be placed initially.

| Type                                                    | Default value |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `top-left` \|`top-right`\|`bottom-left`\|`bottom-right` | `top-right`   |

### `participant`

The participant to be rendered in the `FloatingParticipantView`.

| Type                                                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts)\|`undefined` |

### `onPressHandler`

Handler used to handle actions on click of the participant view in FloatingParticipantView.

| Type                        |
| --------------------------- |
| `() => void` \| `undefined` |

### `style`

This prop is used to override the root container style of the component.

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ViewStyle](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props) |

### `videoZOrder`

The `zOrder` for the video that will be displayed.

| Type     | Default Value |
| -------- | ------------- |
| `number` | `0`           |

### `objectFit`

Represents how the video view fits within the parent view.

| Type                                   | Default Value |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `'contain'` \| `'cover'` \|`undefined` | `cover`       |

### `ParticipantLabel`

<ParticipantLabel />

### `ParticipantReaction`

<ParticipantReaction />

### `ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator`

<ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator />

### `ParticipantVideoFallback`

<ParticipantVideoFallback />

### `ParticipantView`

<ParticipantView />

### `VideoRenderer`

<VideoRenderer />
