packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view.mdx, before:

---
id: participant-view
title: ParticipantView
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import ParticipantCameraOn from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view/participant-camera-on.png';
import ParticipantCameraOff from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view/participant-camera-off.png';

import ParticipantLabel from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-label.mdx';
import ParticipantReaction from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-reaction.mdx';
import ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-network-quality-indicator.mdx';
import ParticipantVideoFallback from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-video-fallback.mdx';
import VideoRenderer from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/video-renderer.mdx';

The `ParticipantView` component renders a participant's video and displays related information of the participant. It can also be used to display the screen sharing view.

It displays the participant info such as

- Name
- Audio/video mute/unmute state
- Reaction
- Network quality indicator

It can toggle between video and avatar based on the participant's video state. It also provides action buttons (for example, to unpin the participant).

:::note
It is used as a building block to render individual item of participants in [CallContent](../call/call-content.mdx) and [CallParticipantsList](../call/call-participants-list.mdx).
:::

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: ParticipantCameraOn,
      caption: 'Participant Camera On',
      alt: 'Participant Camera On',
    },
    {
      image: ParticipantCameraOff,
      caption: 'Participant Camera Off',
      alt: 'Participant Camera Off',
    },
  ]}
/>

## General Usage

In order to use the `ParticipantView` as a standalone component, you should use the following code:

```tsx
import {
  ParticipantView,
  useCallStateHooks,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const App = () => {
  const { useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participants = useParticipants();

  // Here to show the demo, we pass only first participant. You can pass any of the participant.
  return <ParticipantView participant={participants[0]} />;
};
```

## Props

### `participant`

The participant to be rendered in the `ParticipantView`.

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

### `trackType`

The type of the participant stream to be rendered. Eg: screen sharing or participant's video stream.

| Type                               | Default Value |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `videoTrack` \| `screenShareTrack` | `videoTrack`  |

### `style`

This prop is used to override the root container style of the component.

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ViewStyle](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props) |

### `isVisible`

When set to false, the video stream will not be shown even if it is available.

| Type      | Default Value |
| --------- | ------------- |
| `boolean` | `true`        |

### `ParticipantLabel`

<ParticipantLabel />

### `ParticipantReaction`

<ParticipantReaction />

### `ParticipantVideoFallback`

<ParticipantVideoFallback />

### `ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator`

<ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator />

### `VideoRenderer`

<VideoRenderer />

## Customization

Our [UI cookbook](../../../ui-cookbook/overview) tells all the important information about the component customizations.

- [Video fallback](../../../ui-cookbook/video-fallback)
- [Network Quality Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/network-quality-indicator)
- [Custom Label](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-label)
- [Video Renderer](../../../ui-cookbook/video-renderer)
- [Reactions](../../../ui-cookbook/reactions)

Commit message:

feat(react-native): add ability to customize the objectFit for participant view (#1225)
The `objectFit` within the VideoRenderer was not customizable until now.
This PR intoduces ability to customize the same.

Eg:
```
  const CustomParticipantView = useCallback((props: ParticipantViewProps) => {
    return <ParticipantView objectFit="contain" {...props} />;
  }, []);

 <CallContent
        ParticipantView={CustomParticipantView}
      />
```


![Screenshot_1704449788](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/assets/39884168/73868ea5-9e15-45c8-8b33-294e33ac4f7e)

```
  const CustomParticipantView = useCallback((props: ParticipantViewProps) => {
    return <ParticipantView objectFit="cover" {...props} />;
  }, []);

 <CallContent
        ParticipantView={CustomParticipantView}
      />
```

![Screenshot_1704450055](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/assets/39884168/f814f0d7-a57b-477f-884e-59892470cd12)

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view.mdx, after:

---
id: participant-view
title: ParticipantView
---

import ImageShowcase from '@site/src/components/ImageShowcase';
import ParticipantCameraOn from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view/participant-camera-on.png';
import ParticipantCameraOff from '../../assets/04-ui-components/participants/participant-view/participant-camera-off.png';

import ParticipantLabel from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-label.mdx';
import ParticipantReaction from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-reaction.mdx';
import ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-network-quality-indicator.mdx';
import ParticipantVideoFallback from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/participant-video-fallback.mdx';
import VideoRenderer from '../../common-content/ui-components/call/call-content/video-renderer.mdx';

The `ParticipantView` component renders a participant's video and displays related information of the participant. It can also be used to display the screen sharing view.

It displays the participant info such as

- Name
- Audio/video mute/unmute state
- Reaction
- Network quality indicator

It can toggle between video and avatar based on the participant's video state. It also provides action buttons (for example, to unpin the participant).

:::note
It is used as a building block to render individual item of participants in [CallContent](../call/call-content.mdx) and [CallParticipantsList](../call/call-participants-list.mdx).
:::

<ImageShowcase
  items={[
    {
      image: ParticipantCameraOn,
      caption: 'Participant Camera On',
      alt: 'Participant Camera On',
    },
    {
      image: ParticipantCameraOff,
      caption: 'Participant Camera Off',
      alt: 'Participant Camera Off',
    },
  ]}
/>

## General Usage

In order to use the `ParticipantView` as a standalone component, you should use the following code:

```tsx
import {
  ParticipantView,
  useCallStateHooks,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-native-sdk';

const App = () => {
  const { useParticipants } = useCallStateHooks();
  const participants = useParticipants();

  // Here to show the demo, we pass only first participant. You can pass any of the participant.
  return <ParticipantView participant={participants[0]} />;
};
```

## Props

### `participant`

The participant to be rendered in the `ParticipantView`.

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

### `trackType`

The type of the participant stream to be rendered. Eg: screen sharing or participant's video stream.

| Type                               | Default Value |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `videoTrack` \| `screenShareTrack` | `videoTrack`  |

### `style`

This prop is used to override the root container style of the component.

| Type                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ViewStyle](https://reactnative.dev/docs/view-style-props) |

### `isVisible`

When set to false, the video stream will not be shown even if it is available.

| Type      | Default Value |
| --------- | ------------- |
| `boolean` | `true`        |

### `videoZOrder`

The `zOrder` for the video that will be displayed.

| Type     | Default Value |
| -------- | ------------- |
| `number` | `0`           |

### `objectFit`

Represents how the video view fits within the parent view.

| Type                                   | Default Value |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `'contain'` \| `'cover'` \|`undefined` | `cover`       |

### `ParticipantLabel`

<ParticipantLabel />

### `ParticipantReaction`

<ParticipantReaction />

### `ParticipantVideoFallback`

<ParticipantVideoFallback />

### `ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator`

<ParticipantNetworkQualityIndicator />

### `VideoRenderer`

<VideoRenderer />

## Customization

Our [UI cookbook](../../../ui-cookbook/overview) tells all the important information about the component customizations.

- [Video fallback](../../../ui-cookbook/video-fallback)
- [Network Quality Indicator](../../../ui-cookbook/network-quality-indicator)
- [Custom Label](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-label)
- [Video Renderer](../../../ui-cookbook/video-renderer)
- [Reactions](../../../ui-cookbook/reactions)
