packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/call-stats.mdx, before:

---
id: call-statistics
title: Call statistics
---

import CallStats from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-stats.png';

The SDK's default component to display statistics about a call is called `CallStats`. It displays:

- **Call Latency** graph that outlines average round trip time (in ms).
- **Call Performance** section that displays the below listed call statistics

<img src={CallStats} alt="Panel displaying call statistics" width={300}/>

### The call statistics displayed:

- **Region** - the server we are connected to
- **Latency** - the time it takes to deliver the data between the server and the app
- **Receive jitter** - the variation in the delay of receiving packets of data over a network
- **Publish jitter** - the variation in the delay of sending packets of data over a network
- **Publish resolution** - video resolution we are publishing
- **Publish quality drop reason** - optional explanation of the reason, why the video image quality we are sending has diminished
- **Receiving resolution** - video resolution we are receiving
- **Receive quality drop reason** - optional explanation of the reason, why the video image quality we are receiving has diminished
- **Publish bitrate** - the rate at which data is transmitted from the app to the server
- **Receiving bitrate** - the rate at which data is transmitted from the server to the app

## General usage
The default component is just rendered without passing any props:

```tsx
const YourComponent = (someProps: SomeProps) => {
    // omitted code ...

    return (
      {/* omitted code ... */}
        <CallStats />
      {/* omitted code ... */}
    );
}
```

## Customization

The component is not customizable through props, only by applying CSS to elements it renders.

## Props

None

Commit message:

docs: Unify UI components structure (#742)
- [Unify the structure of UI components
pages](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/pull/571#issue-1732498263)
- `Customization` section is moved to end of page (it makes more sense
to write about that after `Props`)
- `StreamVideo` page is added

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/call-stats.mdx, after:

---
id: call-statistics
title: Call statistics
---

import CallStats from '../../assets/03-ui-components/call-stats.png';

The SDK's default component to display statistics about a call is called `CallStats`. It displays:

- **Call Latency** graph that outlines average round trip time (in ms).
- **Call Performance** section that displays the below listed call statistics

<img src={CallStats} alt="Panel displaying call statistics" width={300} />

### The call statistics displayed:

- **Region** - the server we are connected to
- **Latency** - the time it takes to deliver the data between the server and the app
- **Receive jitter** - the variation in the delay of receiving packets of data over a network
- **Publish jitter** - the variation in the delay of sending packets of data over a network
- **Publish resolution** - video resolution we are publishing
- **Publish quality drop reason** - optional explanation of the reason, why the video image quality we are sending has diminished
- **Receiving resolution** - video resolution we are receiving
- **Receive quality drop reason** - optional explanation of the reason, why the video image quality we are receiving has diminished
- **Publish bitrate** - the rate at which data is transmitted from the app to the server
- **Receiving bitrate** - the rate at which data is transmitted from the server to the app

## General usage

The default component is just rendered without passing any props:

```tsx
const YourComponent = (someProps: SomeProps) => {
    // omitted code ...

    return (
      {/* omitted code ... */}
        <CallStats />
      {/* omitted code ... */}
    );
}
```

## Props

None

## Customization

You can create your own call statistics component using the SDK's [call state hooks](../../../guides/call-and-participant-state/#call-state).
