packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/reaction.mdx, before:

---
id: reaction
title: Reaction
---

Reaction component is used to display emojis in real-time for a specified amount of time. You can utilise this functionality, for example, to notify other participants that you want to speak by "raising hand". Our default sorting algorithm will push participants with raised hand to the top of the list for better visibility. Learn more about reaction events and their customization in the [Reactions & Custom Events guide](../../../guides/reactions-and-custom-events) and see how sorting works in the [Participant Sorting guide](../../../guides/sorting-api).

The SDK comes with the `defaultEmojiReactionMap` which consists of three reactions:

- `:like:` (renders 👍)
- `:raise-hand:` (renders ✋)
- `:fireworks:`: (renders 🎉)

You can extend `Reaction` component with your custom map if you need to through `emojiReactionMap` property.

![Reaction component preview](../../assets/03-ui-components/reaction.png)

## General usage

Our `DefaultParticipantViewUI` already comes with the `Reaction` component built in but if you're building your custom `ParticipantViewUI` here's how you'd incorporate the `Reaction` component into your UI:

```tsx
import {
  Reaction,
  useParticipantViewContext,
  defaultEmojiReactionMap,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const customEmojiReactionMap = {
  ...defaultEmojiReactionMap,
  ':lol:': '😂',
};

export const CustomParticipantViewUI = () => {
  const { participant } = useParticipantViewContext();
  return (
    <>
      <Reaction
        participant={participant}
        hideAfterTimeoutInMs={5000}
        emojiReactionMap={customEmojiReactionMap}
      />
      {/* your other custom UI elements */}
    </>
  );
};
```

## Final steps

Now we can pass this custom `ParticipantViewUI` component down to our call layout components or directly to `ParticipantView` component in our custom call layout as described in the [ParticipantView customizations guide](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-view-customizations).

## Props

### `participant`

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

The participant whose reaction the component should display.

### `hideAfterTimeoutInMs`

| Type                    |
| ----------------------- |
| `number` \| `undefined` |

Timeout in miliseconds after which the component resets [participant reaction state](../../../guides/reactions-and-custom-events/#clearing-reactions).

Commit message:

docs: Unify UI components structure (#742)
- [Unify the structure of UI components
pages](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/pull/571#issue-1732498263)
- `Customization` section is moved to end of page (it makes more sense
to write about that after `Props`)
- `StreamVideo` page is added

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/reaction.mdx, after:

---
id: reaction
title: Reaction
---

Reaction component is used to display emojis in real-time for a specified amount of time. You can utilise this functionality, for example, to notify other participants that you want to speak by "raising hand". Our default sorting algorithm will push participants with raised hand to the top of the list for better visibility. Learn more about reaction events and their customization in the [Reactions & Custom Events guide](../../../guides/reactions-and-custom-events) and see how sorting works in the [Participant Sorting guide](../../../guides/sorting-api).

![Reaction component preview](../../assets/03-ui-components/reaction.png)

## General usage

Our `DefaultParticipantViewUI` already comes with the `Reaction` component built-in but if you're building your custom `ParticipantViewUI` here's how you'd incorporate the `Reaction` component into your UI:

```tsx
import {
  Reaction,
  useParticipantViewContext,
  defaultEmojiReactionMap,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const customEmojiReactionMap = {
  ...defaultEmojiReactionMap,
  ':lol:': '😂',
};

export const CustomParticipantViewUI = () => {
  const { participant } = useParticipantViewContext();
  return (
    <>
      <Reaction
        participant={participant}
        hideAfterTimeoutInMs={5000}
        emojiReactionMap={customEmojiReactionMap}
      />
      {/* your other custom UI elements */}
    </>
  );
};
```

Now we can pass this custom `ParticipantViewUI` component down to our call layout components or directly to `ParticipantView` component in our custom call layout as described in the [ParticipantView customizations guide](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-view-customizations).

## Props

### `participant`

| Type                                                                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`StreamVideoParticipant`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/main/packages/client/src/types.ts) |

The participant whose reaction the component should display.

### `hideAfterTimeoutInMs`

| Type                    |
| ----------------------- |
| `number` \| `undefined` |

Timeout in miliseconds after which the component resets [participant reaction state](../../../guides/reactions-and-custom-events/#clearing-reactions).

### empjiReactionMap

| Type                     |
| ------------------------ |
| `Record<string, string>` |

Mapping of the emoji keys (for example `:like:`) and the associated emoji (for example 👍)

The SDK comes with the following default mapping:

- `:like:` (renders 👍)
- `:raise-hand:` (renders ✋)
- `:fireworks:`: (renders 🎉)

## Customization

If you want to build your own reaction component, you'll have to provide your own `ParticipantViewUI` component. For more information visit the [ParticipantView customizations guide](../../../ui-cookbook/participant-view-customizations).
