packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/speaking-while-muted-notification.mdx, before:

---
id: speaking-while-muted-notification
title: Speaking while muted notification
---

import SpeakingWhileMutedNotification from '../../assets/03-ui-components/speaking-while-muted-notification.png'

The `SpeakingWhileMuted` component is based on `Notification` component that is a simple popover. The SDK attaches the component to [`ToggleAudioPublishingButton`](../../call/call-controls). The popover rendering is controlled by sound detection mechanism put in place by `createSoundDetector()` function.

<div style={{width: '100%', display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', marginBlock: '1rem'}}>
    <img src={SpeakingWhileMutedNotification} alt="Default UI of SpeakingWhileMutedNotification component" width={300}/>
</div>

## General usage

The component is used by wrapping the component to which it will refer:

```tsx
    <SpeakingWhileMutedNotification>
      <ToggleAudioPublishingButton />
    </SpeakingWhileMutedNotification>
```

## Customization

To learn more about creating sound detection functionality, have a look at our [speaking-while-muted tutorial](../../../ui-cookbook/speaking-while-muted).

## Props

None

Commit message:

feat(react-sdk): add prop text to SpeakingWhileMutedNotification component

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/03-ui-components/utility/speaking-while-muted-notification.mdx, after:

---
id: speaking-while-muted-notification
title: Speaking while muted notification
---

import SpeakingWhileMutedNotification from '../../assets/03-ui-components/speaking-while-muted-notification.png'

The `SpeakingWhileMuted` component is based on `Notification` component that is a simple popover. The SDK attaches the component to [`ToggleAudioPublishingButton`](../../call/call-controls). The popover rendering is controlled by sound detection mechanism put in place by `createSoundDetector()` function.

<div style={{width: '100%', display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center', marginBlock: '1rem'}}>
    <img src={SpeakingWhileMutedNotification} alt="Default UI of SpeakingWhileMutedNotification component" width={300}/>
</div>

## General usage

The component is used by wrapping the component to which it will refer:

```tsx
    <SpeakingWhileMutedNotification>
      <ToggleAudioPublishingButton />
    </SpeakingWhileMutedNotification>
```

## Customization

To learn more about creating sound detection functionality, have a look at our [speaking-while-muted tutorial](../../../ui-cookbook/speaking-while-muted).

## Props

### `text`

| Type                    | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------- |
| `string` \| `undefined` | `'You are muted. Unmute to speak.'` |

Text message displayed by the notification.
