packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/03-core/04-camera-and-microphone.mdx, before:

---
id: camera-and-microphone
title: Camera & Microphone
description: Docs on the media manager
---

Handling audio and video devices in a your application means working with `MediaStream`, `MediaDeviceInfo` and other WebRTC API objects. To make this simpler, we hide all the complexity inside the SDK and export utility functions and states. In this guide we shall go over their usage.

## Camera management

### Call settings

The default state of the camera is determined by the settings in the call object.

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const { useCallSettings } = useCallStateHooks();
const settings = useCallSettings();

settings?.video.camera_default_on;
```

:::note
Make sure, `call.get()` is called at least once in the application, after the call is created.
:::

### Start-Stop Camera

We can use the functions `camera.enable()` and `camera.disable()` to control the publishing and un-publishing our video stream.

Alternatively, you can use `camera.toggle()`.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.camera.enable();
call.camera.disable();
// or
call.camera.toggle();
```

### Manage Camera Facing Mode

We can toggle the camera face from front to back and vice-versa using `camera.flip()` function inside the call object derived from `useCall` hook.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.camera.flip();
```

We can get the facing mode state of the camera by:

```ts
const { useCameraState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { direction } = useCameraState(); // direction returns 'front' or 'back'.
```

### Video mute status

We can get the mute state of our video stream by checking the `status` value returned from the `useCameraState` hook:

```ts
const { useCameraState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { status } = useCameraState(); // status returns enabled, disabled or undefined
```

### Show Video Preview

We can get the video stream from the camera using the media stream from the `call.camera` object and show it using the `RTCView` component from `@stream-io/react-native-webrtc` library:

```tsx
import { RTCView } from '@stream-io/react-native-webrtc';
const call = useCall();

const localVideoStream = call?.camera.state.mediaStream;

return <RTCView streamURL={localVideoStream?.toURL()} />;
```

## Microphone management

### Call settings

The default state of the microphone is determined by the settings in the call object.

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const { useCallSettings } = useCallStateHooks();
const settings = useCallSettings();

settings?.audio.mic_default_on;
```

:::note
Make sure, `call.get()` is called at least once in the application, after the call is created.
:::

### Start-Stop Microphone

We can use the functions `microphone.enable()` and `microphone.disable()` to control the publishing and un-publishing our audio stream:

Alternatively, you can use `microphone.toggle()`.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.microphone.enable();
call.microphone.disable();
// or
call.microphone.toggle();
```

### Audio mute status

We can get the mute state of our audio stream by checking the `status` value returned from the `useMicrophoneState` hook:

```ts
const { useMicrophoneState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { status } = useMicrophoneState(); // status returns enabled, disabled or undefined
```

## Client-side settings

Before joining a call, user may need to preview their streams and decide their mute status. We provide utility functions in the hook `useMediaStreamManagement` for this.

### Initial mute status

The initial status of the camera and mic can be pre-selected by the following:

```tsx {7-10}
export const App = () => {
  const call = /* ... */;

  return (
    <StreamCall
      call={call}
      mediaDeviceInitialState={{
        initialVideoEnabled: true, // This will override the camera initial mute status from call settings
        initialAudioEnabled: false, // This will override the microphone initial mute status from call settings
      }}
    >
      <MyUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

Also, The following toggle functions can be used to toggle the mute/unmute status of the streams before joining a call:

```ts
const { toggleInitialAudioMuteState, toggleInitialVideoMuteState } =
  useMediaStreamManagement();
```

Commit message:

docs(react-native): Update Camera and microphone guide with Speaker Management guide

packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/03-core/04-camera-and-microphone.mdx, after:

---
id: camera-and-microphone
title: Camera & Microphone
description: Docs on the media manager
---

Handling audio and video devices in a your application means working with `MediaStream`, `MediaDeviceInfo` and other WebRTC API objects. To make this simpler, we hide all the complexity inside the SDK and export utility functions and states. In this guide we shall go over their usage.

## Camera management

### Call settings

The default state of the camera is determined by the settings in the call object.

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const { useCallSettings } = useCallStateHooks();
const settings = useCallSettings();

settings?.video.camera_default_on;
```

:::note
Make sure, `call.get()` is called at least once in the application, after the call is created.
:::

### Start-Stop Camera

We can use the functions `camera.enable()` and `camera.disable()` to control the publishing and un-publishing our video stream.

Alternatively, you can use `camera.toggle()`.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.camera.enable();
call.camera.disable();
// or
call.camera.toggle();
```

### Manage Camera Facing Mode

We can toggle the camera face from front to back and vice-versa using `camera.flip()` function inside the call object derived from `useCall` hook.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.camera.flip();
```

We can get the facing mode state of the camera by:

```ts
const { useCameraState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { direction } = useCameraState(); // direction returns 'front' or 'back'.
```

### Video mute status

We can get the mute state of our video stream by checking the `status` value returned from the `useCameraState` hook:

```ts
const { useCameraState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { status } = useCameraState(); // status returns enabled, disabled or undefined
```

### Show Video Preview

We can get the video stream from the camera using the media stream from the `call.camera` object and show it using the `RTCView` component from `@stream-io/react-native-webrtc` library:

```tsx
import { RTCView } from '@stream-io/react-native-webrtc';
const call = useCall();

const localVideoStream = call?.camera.state.mediaStream;

return <RTCView streamURL={localVideoStream?.toURL()} />;
```

## Microphone management

### Call settings

The default state of the microphone is determined by the settings in the call object.

```ts
import { useCallStateHooks } from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

const { useCallSettings } = useCallStateHooks();
const settings = useCallSettings();

settings?.audio.mic_default_on;
```

:::note
Make sure, `call.get()` is called at least once in the application, after the call is created.
:::

### Start-Stop Microphone

We can use the functions `microphone.enable()` and `microphone.disable()` to control the publishing and un-publishing our audio stream:

Alternatively, you can use `microphone.toggle()`.

```ts
const call = useCall();

call.microphone.enable();
call.microphone.disable();
// or
call.microphone.toggle();
```

### Audio mute status

We can get the mute state of our audio stream by checking the `status` value returned from the `useMicrophoneState` hook:

```ts
const { useMicrophoneState } = useCallStateHooks();
const { status } = useMicrophoneState(); // status returns enabled, disabled or undefined
```

## Speaker management

We use [react-native-incall-manager](https://github.com/react-native-webrtc/react-native-incall-manager) for most of our speaker/audio output management.

### Start/Stop Speaker

InCallManager allows you to start/stop the audio output on the device through:

```tsx
import InCallManager from 'react-native-incall-manager';

InCallManager.start({ media: 'video' }); // `media` values - audio/video, default: audio
InCallManager.stop();
```

InCallManager allows you to enable/disable the speaker phone.

```tsx
import InCallManager from 'react-native-incall-manager';

// For Android
InCallManager.setSpeakerphoneOn(enable: ?boolean); // Pass true for on, and false for off.

// To force speaker phone on/off on both android and iOS.
InCallManager.setForceSpeakerphoneOn(flag: ?boolean) // Pass true for on, and false for off.
```

## Client-side settings

Before joining a call, user may need to preview their streams and decide their mute status. We provide utility functions in the hook `useMediaStreamManagement` for this.

### Initial mute status

The initial status of the camera and mic can be pre-selected by the following:

```tsx {7-10}
export const App = () => {
  const call = /* ... */;

  return (
    <StreamCall
      call={call}
      mediaDeviceInitialState={{
        initialVideoEnabled: true, // This will override the camera initial mute status from call settings
        initialAudioEnabled: false, // This will override the microphone initial mute status from call settings
      }}
    >
      <MyUI />
    </StreamCall>
  );
};
```

Also, The following toggle functions can be used to toggle the mute/unmute status of the streams before joining a call:

```ts
const { toggleInitialAudioMuteState, toggleInitialVideoMuteState } =
  useMediaStreamManagement();
```
