sample-apps/react/egress-composite/README.md, before:

# Egress-Composite

A companion app in Call Recording process.

## Config

This application is meant to be used in a browser window running in a virtualized environment [xvfb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xvfb).
As such, this application accepts certain configuration parameters to be provided via a query parameter:

| **Query Parameter**      | **Description**                                        |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `?call_id=<call-id>`     | The ID of the call to join. Defaults to `egress-test`. |
| `?call_type=<call-type>` | The type of the call. Defaults to `default`.           |
| `?api_key=<api-key>`     | The Stream API key.                                    |
| `?token=<token>`         | The access user token.                                 |
| `?base_url=<base-url>`   | The base URL of the Stream Coordinator API.            |
| `?layout=<layout>`       | The layout to use. Defaults to `dominant-speaker`.     |

## Run

- `yarn start`
- open browser

Commit message:

feat(egress-composite): add support for new options (#1104)
Currently supported options are marked with ✅, options marked with ❌
might take a while to be supported as further SDK adjustments are
required:


https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/blob/acc7301c069daeff68a8ad495e4f66bc2e61a137/sample-apps/react/egress-composite/src/ConfigurationContext.tsx#L53-L117

I'd like to go through these options next and work on unifying the
naming.

#### TODO:

 - [x] add tests for `genericLayoutStyles`
 - [x] add tests for `participantStyles`
 - [x] add tests for `participantLabelStyles`
 - [x] add tests for `logoAndTitleStyles`
 - [x] ~add tests for `videoStyles`~

---------

Co-authored-by: Oliver Lazoroski <oliver.lazoroski@gmail.com>

sample-apps/react/egress-composite/README.md, after:

# Egress-Composite

A companion app in Call Recording process.

## Config

This application is meant to be used in a browser window running in a virtualized environment [xvfb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xvfb).
As such, this application accepts certain configuration parameters to be provided via JSONP (`window.setupLayout`). List of supported options (marked with ✅) can be found in the [`ConfigurationContext.tsx`](./src/ConfigurationContext.tsx). To test your custom options see the commented-out script at the bottom of the [`main.tsx`](./src/main.tsx) file.

### Required configuration options

| **Parameter** | **Description**                                                                                                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `call_id`     | The ID of the call to join.                                                                                                          |
| `api_key`     | The Stream API key (if not provided, the application will try to load it from the environment variable `VITE_STREAM_API_KEY`).       |
| `token`       | The access user token (if not provided, the application will try to load it from the environment variable `VITE_STREAM_USER_TOKEN`). |
| `call_type`   | The type of the call. Defaults to `default`.                                                                                         |

## To create and test your custom configuration

- clone repository and run `yarn install` in the root folder (`stream-video-js/`)
- navigate to `sample-apps/react/egress-composite` folder
- run `yarn start`
- open browser
- uncomment and tweak the setup script at the bottom of the [`main.tsx`](./src/main.tsx) file to your likings
