packages/client/docusaurus/docs/javascript/01-basics/01-introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction about Stream's video client
slug: /
---

Welcome to the Stream Video Client - a comprehensive toolkit designed to help you swiftly implement features such as video calling, audio calling, audio rooms, and livestreaming within your app. Our goal is to ensure an optimal developer experience that speeds up your development process.

Our JavaScript client comes with high-level API calls and reactive state management, making your development process seamless. Moreover, all calls are routed through Stream's global edge network, thereby ensuring lower latency and higher reliability due to proximity to end users.

It can be used with TypeScript and JavaScript as well.

If you're new to Stream Video Client, we recommend starting with the [quickstart](./basics/quickstart).

After the tutorials the documentation explains how to use core concepts such as initiating a call, switching the camera view, and more

It also explains advanced features such as:

- Recording
- Broadcasting
- Requesting & Granting permissions
- Audio & Video Filters

If you feel like anything is missing or could be improved, please don't hesitate to [contact us](https://getstream.io/contact/). We're happy to help.

Commit message:

docs(js): remove tutorials (#1206)
Following on #1203, remove the tutorials for the JavaScript SDK. 
These tutorials are now available on our main website.

packages/client/docusaurus/docs/javascript/01-basics/01-introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction about Stream's JavaScript SDK
slug: /
---

Welcome to the Stream Video JavaScript SDK - a comprehensive toolkit designed to help you swiftly implement features such as video calling, audio calling, audio rooms, and livestreaming within your app.
Our goal is to ensure an optimal developer experience that speeds up your development process.

Our JavaScript SDK comes with high-level APIs and reactive state management, making your development process seamless.
Moreover, all calls are routed through Stream's global edge network, thereby ensuring lower latency and higher reliability due to proximity to end users.

It can be used with TypeScript and JavaScript as well.

If you're new to Stream Video JavaScript SDK, we recommend starting with the following tutorials:

- [Quickstart](./basics/quickstart)
- [Video and Audio Calling Tutorial](https://getstream.io/video/sdk/javascript/tutorial/video-calling/)
- [Audio Rooms Tutorial](https://getstream.io/video/sdk/javascript/tutorial/audio-room/)
- [Livestream Tutorial](https://getstream.io/video/sdk/javascript/tutorial/livestreaming/)

After the tutorials the documentation explains how to use core concepts such as initiating a call, switching the camera view, and more.

It also explains advanced features such as:

- Recording
- Broadcasting
- Requesting & Granting permissions
- Audio & Video Filters

If you feel like anything is missing or could be improved, please don't hesitate to [contact us](https://getstream.io/contact/). We're happy to help.
