packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/06-ui-cookbook/09-audio-volume-indicator.mdx, before:

---
id: audio-volume-indicator
title: Audio Volume Indicator
description: Audio Volume Indicator
---

import AudioVolumeIndicator from "../assets/ui-cookbook/09-audio-volume-indicator/audio-volume-indicator.png";

In this documentation article, we will explore how to build a custom sound detection component using [`createSoundDetector`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts).

## Sound detection
We can start detecting the audio input level changes using the utility function [`createSoundDetector`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts).  The function requires an instance of [`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) object of type `audioinput` and attaches sound analysers to it. The `MediaStream` can be retrieved by the SDK's `getAudioStream` utility function. Then it periodically collects audio frequency data. We can access this data by providing the `onSoundDetectedStateChanged` callback function. The callback function will be passed and object of type [`SoundDetectorState`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts) as argument. From the object we can extract the information about the audio level (`audioLevel`) or a more simplified general flag that tells us, whether sound was detected (`isSoundDetected`).

It is also possible to configure the data collection algorithm with the third [`options` parameter](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts).

The return value of [`createSoundDetector`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts) function is a clean-up function that should be called, when a component, that uses sound detection is unmounted.

## Custom AudioVolumeIndicator component
The component will show the audio level changes by expanding and contracting a line.

<img src={AudioVolumeIndicator} alt="Image of audio volume indicator"/>

The audio level is kept in component's state. The sound detection is set up in an effect. Also, we make sure to call the clean-up function in the effect clean-up phase.


```tsx
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

import {
  createSoundDetector,
  Icon,
  useMediaDevices,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export const AudioVolumeIndicator = () => {
  const { getAudioStream, selectedAudioInputDeviceId, initialAudioEnabled } =
    useMediaDevices();
  const [audioLevel, setAudioLevel] = useState<number>(0);

  // highlight-start
  useEffect(() => {
    // do not detect sound changes if audio is disabled
    if (!initialAudioEnabled) return;

    const disposeSoundDetector = getAudioStream({
      deviceId: selectedAudioInputDeviceId,
    }).then((audioStream) =>
      createSoundDetector(
        audioStream,
        ({ audioLevel: al }) => setAudioLevel(al),
        { detectionFrequencyInMs: 80 },
      ),
    );

    disposeSoundDetector.catch((err) => {
      console.error('Error while creating sound detector', err);
    });

    return () => {
      // clean up stream and analyser
      disposeSoundDetector
        .then((dispose) => dispose())
        .catch((err) => {
          console.error('Error while disposing sound detector', err);
        });
    };
  }, [initialAudioEnabled, getAudioStream, selectedAudioInputDeviceId]);
  // highlight-end

  if (!initialAudioEnabled) return null;

  return (
    <div
      style={{
        width: '100%',
        display: 'flex',
        alignItems: 'center',
        gap: '0.75rem',
        padding: '0 1.25rem 1rem',
      }}
    >
      <Icon icon="mic" />
      <div
        style={{
          flex: '1',
          background: '#fff',
          height: '5px',
          borderRadius: '4px',
        }}
      >
        <div
          style={{
            // highlight-start
            transform: `scaleX(${audioLevel / 100})`,
            transformOrigin: 'left center',
            // highlight-end
            background: 'var(--str-video__primary-color)',
            width: '100%',
            height: '100%',
          }}
        />
      </div>
    </div>
  );
};
```

Commit message:

docs(react-sdk): move Sound detection section from audio volume indicator tutorial to media devices guide

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/06-ui-cookbook/09-audio-volume-indicator.mdx, after:

---
id: audio-volume-indicator
title: Audio Volume Indicator
description: Audio Volume Indicator
---

import AudioVolumeIndicator from "../assets/ui-cookbook/09-audio-volume-indicator/audio-volume-indicator.png";

In this documentation article, we will explore how to build a custom sound detection component using [`createSoundDetector`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts).

## Sound detection
The sound detection can be easily implemented using [`createSoundDetector`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-js/tree/main/packages/client/src/helpers/sound-detector.ts) utility function. To learn more about this function, please see our [sound detection guide](../../guides/camera-and-microphone#sound-detection).

## Custom AudioVolumeIndicator component
The component will show the audio level changes by expanding and contracting a line.

<img src={AudioVolumeIndicator} alt="Image of audio volume indicator"/>

The audio level is kept in component's state. The sound detection is set up in an effect. Also, we make sure to call the clean-up function in the effect clean-up phase.


```tsx
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

import {
  createSoundDetector,
  Icon,
  useMediaDevices,
} from '@stream-io/video-react-sdk';

export const AudioVolumeIndicator = () => {
  const { getAudioStream, selectedAudioInputDeviceId, initialAudioEnabled } =
    useMediaDevices();
  const [audioLevel, setAudioLevel] = useState<number>(0);

  // highlight-start
  useEffect(() => {
    // do not detect sound changes if audio is disabled
    if (!initialAudioEnabled) return;

    const disposeSoundDetector = getAudioStream({
      deviceId: selectedAudioInputDeviceId,
    }).then((audioStream) =>
      createSoundDetector(
        audioStream,
        ({ audioLevel: al }) => setAudioLevel(al),
        { detectionFrequencyInMs: 80 },
      ),
    );

    disposeSoundDetector.catch((err) => {
      console.error('Error while creating sound detector', err);
    });

    return () => {
      // clean up stream and analyser
      disposeSoundDetector
        .then((dispose) => dispose())
        .catch((err) => {
          console.error('Error while disposing sound detector', err);
        });
    };
  }, [initialAudioEnabled, getAudioStream, selectedAudioInputDeviceId]);
  // highlight-end

  if (!initialAudioEnabled) return null;

  return (
    <div
      style={{
        width: '100%',
        display: 'flex',
        alignItems: 'center',
        gap: '0.75rem',
        padding: '0 1.25rem 1rem',
      }}
    >
      <Icon icon="mic" />
      <div
        style={{
          flex: '1',
          background: '#fff',
          height: '5px',
          borderRadius: '4px',
        }}
      >
        <div
          style={{
            // highlight-start
            transform: `scaleX(${audioLevel / 100})`,
            transformOrigin: 'left center',
            // highlight-end
            background: 'var(--str-video__primary-color)',
            width: '100%',
            height: '100%',
          }}
        />
      </div>
    </div>
  );
};
```
