packages/client/docusaurus/docs/javascript/02-guides/03-call-and-participant-state.mdx, before:

---
title: Call & Participant State
description: How the state is exposed
---

The call, participant and client states are reactive. Their value is updated on WebSocket events and API calls. We use the [RxJS library](https://rxjs.dev/) for this, each state property is an Observable.

Let's see an example, this is how you can subscribe to changes related to participants:

```typescript
const { participants$ } = call.state;
const subscription = participants$.subscribe((participants) => {
  console.log(participants);
});

// dispose the subscription when you don't need it anymore
subscription.unsubscribe();
```

The `console.log` method will be called each time there is a change to the list of participants in the call.

This approach makes it possible to access the state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

Alternatively you can also access the current value of each state variable:

```typescript
const { participants } = call.state;
console.log(participants);
```

It's useful when you need to know the current value, but you don't need to be notified about future changes.

## Call state

The call state can be accessed through `call.state` object as in the examples above.
In this object, you'll find properties that are reactive and static as well.
The reactive/observable properties are suffixed with `$` and the static ones are without the suffix.

Here are is an excerpt of the call state properties:

| Reactive value           | Static value            | Description                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `members$`               | `members`               | The list of call members                                                                                     |
| `callingState$`          | `callingState`          | Provides information about the call state. For example, `RINGING`, `JOINED` or `RECONNECTING`.               |
| `localParticipant$`      | `localParticipant`      | The local participant is the logged-in user.                                                                 |
| `remoteParticipants$`    | `remoteParticipants`    | All participants except the local participant.                                                               |
| `participants$`          | `participants`          | All participants, including local and remote participants.                                                   |
| `startedAt$`             | `startedAt`             | The actual start time of the current call session.                                                           |
| `callStatsReport$`       | `callStatsReport`       | When stats gathering is enabled, this observable will emit a new value at a regular (configurable) interval. |
| `hasOngoingScreenShare$` | `hasOngoingScreenShare` | It will return `true` if at least one participant is sharing their screen.                                   |
| `custom$`                | `custom`                | Custom data attached to the call.                                                                            |
| `dominantSpeaker$`       | `dominantSpeaker`       | The participant that is the current dominant speaker of the call.                                            |
| `ownCapabilities$`       | `ownCapabilities`       | The capabilities of the local participant.                                                                   |

:::note
Your IDE of choice may help you to discover the other properties of the call state.
:::

## Participant state

If you want to display information about the joined participants of the call you can use the following properties in `call.state`:

| Reactive value               | Static value                | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `localParticipant$`          | `localParticipant`          | The local participant is the logged-in user.                                                                                                                           |
| `remoteParticipants$`        | `remoteParticipants`        | All participants except the local participant.                                                                                                                         |
| `participants$`              | `participants`              | All participants, including local and remote participants.                                                                                                             |
| `participantCount$`          | `participantCount`          | The approximate participant count of the active call. This includes the [anonymous users](../client-auth/#anonymous-users) as well, it is computed on the server-side. |
| `anonymousParticipantCount$` | `anonymousParticipantCount` | The approximate participant count of anonymous users in the active call.                                                                                               |

The `StreamVideoParticipant` object contains the following information:

| Name                 | Description                                                                 |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user`               | The user object for this participant.                                       |
| `publishedTracks`    | The track types the participant is currently publishing                     |
| `joinedAt`           | The time the participant joined the call.                                   |
| `connectionQuality`  | The participant's connection quality.                                       |
| `isSpeaking`         | It's `true` if the participant is currently speaking.                       |
| `isDominantSpeaker`  | It's `true` if the participant is the current dominant speaker in the call. |
| `audioLevel`         | The audio level of the participant.                                         |
| `audioStream`        | The published audio `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `videoStream`        | The published video `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `screenShareStream`  | The published screen share `MediaStream`.                                   |
| `isLocalParticipant` | It's `true` if the participant is the local participant.                    |
| `pin`                | Holds pinning information.                                                  |
| `reaction`           | The last reaction this user has sent to this call.                          |

The `StreamVideoLocalParticipant` has these additional properties:

| Name                  | Description                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `audioDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected audio input device.  |
| `videoDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected video input device.  |
| `audioOutputDeviceId` | The device ID of the currently selected audio output device. |

## Client state

The client state can be accessed by `client.state`.

Here are the list of client state properties:

| Reactie value    | Static value    | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `connectedUser$` | `connectedUser` | Returns the connected user.                                                                                                                 |
| `calls$`         | `calls`         | A list of all notifications about created calls. These calls can be outgoing (I have called somebody) or incoming (somebody has called me). |

The `UserResponse` contains the following properties:

| Name         | Description                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `created_at` | The time the user was created.                        |
| `custom`     | Custom user data.                                     |
| `deleted_at` | The time the user was deleted.                        |
| `devices`    | The registered push notification devices of the user. |
| `id`         | The id of the user.                                   |
| `image`      | The profile image of the user.                        |
| `name`       | The name of the user.                                 |
| `role`       | The role of the user.                                 |
| `teams`      | The teams the user belongs to.                        |
| `updated_at` | The time when the user was updated.                   |

Commit message:

fix: added missing state fields and hooks

packages/client/docusaurus/docs/javascript/02-guides/03-call-and-participant-state.mdx, after:

---
title: Call & Participant State
description: How the state is exposed
---

The call, participant and client states are reactive. Their value is updated on WebSocket events and API calls. We use the [RxJS library](https://rxjs.dev/) for this, each state property is an Observable.

Let's see an example, this is how you can subscribe to changes related to participants:

```typescript
const { participants$ } = call.state;
const subscription = participants$.subscribe((participants) => {
  console.log(participants);
});

// dispose the subscription when you don't need it anymore
subscription.unsubscribe();
```

The `console.log` method will be called each time there is a change to the list of participants in the call.

This approach makes it possible to access the state and be notified about changes anywhere in your application without having to manually subscribe to WebSocket events.

Alternatively you can also access the current value of each state variable:

```typescript
const { participants } = call.state;
console.log(participants);
```

It's useful when you need to know the current value, but you don't need to be notified about future changes.

## Call state

The call state can be accessed through `call.state` object as in the examples above.
In this object, you'll find properties that are reactive and static as well.
The reactive/observable properties are suffixed with `$` and the static ones are without the suffix.

Here are is an excerpt of the call state properties:

| Reactive value           | Static value            | Description                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `members$`               | `members`               | The list of call members                                                                                     |
| `callingState$`          | `callingState`          | Provides information about the call state. For example, `RINGING`, `JOINED` or `RECONNECTING`.               |
| `startedAt$`             | `startedAt`             | The actual start time of the current call session.                                                           |
| `callStatsReport$`       | `callStatsReport`       | When stats gathering is enabled, this observable will emit a new value at a regular (configurable) interval. |
| `hasOngoingScreenShare$` | `hasOngoingScreenShare` | It will return `true` if at least one participant is sharing their screen.                                   |
| `custom$`                | `custom`                | Custom data attached to the call.                                                                            |
| `dominantSpeaker$`       | `dominantSpeaker`       | The participant that is the current dominant speaker of the call.                                            |
| `ownCapabilities$`       | `ownCapabilities`       | The capabilities of the local participant.                                                                   |
| `pinnedParticipants$`    | `pinnedParticipants`    | The participants that are currently pinned.                                                                  |
| `backstage$`             | `backstage`             | `true` when the call runs in `backstage` mode                                                                |
| `blockedUserIds$`        | `blockedUserIds`        | The list of blocked user IDs.                                                                                |
| `createdAt$`             | `createdAt`             | The time the call was created.                                                                               |
| `endedAt$`               | `endedAt`               | The time the call was ended.                                                                                 |
| `startsAt$`              | `startsAt`              | The time the call is scheduled to start.                                                                     |
| `updatedAt$`             | `updatedAt`             | The time the call was updated.                                                                               |
| `createdBy$`             | `createdBy`             | The user who created the call.                                                                               |
| `endedBy$`               | `endedBy`               | The user who ended the call.                                                                                 |
| `egress$`                | `egress`                | The egress data of the call (for broadcasting and livestreaming).                                            |
| `ingress$`               | `ingress`               | The ingress data of the call (for broadcasting and livestreaming).                                           |
| `recording$`             | `recording`             | The recording state of the call.                                                                             |
| `session$`               | `session`               | The data for the current call session.                                                                       |
| `settings$`              | `settings`              | The settings of the call.                                                                                    |
| `transcribing$`          | `transcribing`          | The transcribing state of the call.                                                                          |

:::note
Your IDE of choice may help you to discover the other properties of the call state.
:::

## Participant state

If you want to display information about the joined participants of the call you can use the following properties in `call.state`:

| Reactive value               | Static value                | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `localParticipant$`          | `localParticipant`          | The local participant is the logged-in user.                                                                                                                           |
| `remoteParticipants$`        | `remoteParticipants`        | All participants except the local participant.                                                                                                                         |
| `participants$`              | `participants`              | All participants, including local and remote participants.                                                                                                             |
| `participantCount$`          | `participantCount`          | The approximate participant count of the active call. This includes the [anonymous users](../client-auth/#anonymous-users) as well, it is computed on the server-side. |
| `anonymousParticipantCount$` | `anonymousParticipantCount` | The approximate participant count of anonymous users in the active call.                                                                                               |

The `StreamVideoParticipant` object contains the following information:

| Name                 | Description                                                                 |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user`               | The user object for this participant.                                       |
| `publishedTracks`    | The track types the participant is currently publishing                     |
| `joinedAt`           | The time the participant joined the call.                                   |
| `connectionQuality`  | The participant's connection quality.                                       |
| `isSpeaking`         | It's `true` if the participant is currently speaking.                       |
| `isDominantSpeaker`  | It's `true` if the participant is the current dominant speaker in the call. |
| `audioLevel`         | The audio level of the participant.                                         |
| `audioStream`        | The published audio `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `videoStream`        | The published video `MediaStream`.                                          |
| `screenShareStream`  | The published screen share `MediaStream`.                                   |
| `isLocalParticipant` | It's `true` if the participant is the local participant.                    |
| `pin`                | Holds pinning information.                                                  |
| `reaction`           | The last reaction this user has sent to this call.                          |

The `StreamVideoLocalParticipant` has these additional properties:

| Name                  | Description                                                  |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `audioDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected audio input device.  |
| `videoDeviceId`       | The device ID of the currently selected video input device.  |
| `audioOutputDeviceId` | The device ID of the currently selected audio output device. |

## Client state

The client state can be accessed by `client.state`.

Here are the list of client state properties:

| Reactie value    | Static value    | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `connectedUser$` | `connectedUser` | Returns the connected user.                                                                                                                 |
| `calls$`         | `calls`         | A list of all notifications about created calls. These calls can be outgoing (I have called somebody) or incoming (somebody has called me). |

The `UserResponse` contains the following properties:

| Name         | Description                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `created_at` | The time the user was created.                        |
| `custom`     | Custom user data.                                     |
| `deleted_at` | The time the user was deleted.                        |
| `devices`    | The registered push notification devices of the user. |
| `id`         | The id of the user.                                   |
| `image`      | The profile image of the user.                        |
| `name`       | The name of the user.                                 |
| `role`       | The role of the user.                                 |
| `teams`      | The teams the user belongs to.                        |
| `updated_at` | The time when the user was updated.                   |
