packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/02-tutorials/02-audio-room.mdx, before:

---
title: Audio Room Tutorial
description: How to build an audio room using Stream's video SDKs
---

In this guide, you'll build an audio room experience similar to Twitter Spaces / Clubhouse.

The final result will look like this:

// TODO add sample video

The code for the final result can also be found on GitHub, so if you're only interested in seeing the resulting code, go [here](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-ios-examples/tree/main/AudioRooms).

:::note
For the sake of simplicity, the code provided in this guide may be simplified in certain situations. However, there will always be a link to the repository with the full code, so that you'll be able to have a look at that.
:::

Alright, let's get started. Creating this app will require the following steps:

1. Setup the project
2. Describe the login flow
3. Creating rooms via the API
4. Querying calls (with real-time updates)
5. Joining and leaving a room
6. Building up a UI for a room
7. Managing speaking requests

### Setup the project

The first step is to set up a new project. We'll use `vite` to do this, but feel free to use any other tool that you like.

To keep things simple, we'll just work with plain React and Typescript:

```bash
yarn create vite audio-rooms-sample --template react-ts
```

:::note
The entire Stream team loves Typescript. If you're wondering why, consider checking [this post](https://getstream.io/blog/typescript-basics/) about the topic on our Blog.
:::

Next, we install the dependencies for the Stream package:

```bash
yarn add @stream-io/video-react-sdk
```

After that, we can create a new project in the [Stream Dashboard](https://getstream.io/dashboard/). Once logged in, you will be introduced to our dashboard. There you can manage your applications. The app represents Stream's dedicated infrastructure that will handle your app's video calls.
Make sure to [create a video application](TODO: image/gif showing the UI creating the app) in your Stream dashboard. The API key and secret will be generated automatically upon the app's creation. Those are the credentials we will need for authentication.

:::tip
If you don't have a Stream account yet, you can register and try it for free [here](https://getstream.io/try-for-free/).
:::

The last setup step is to create a `.env` file. This is where we will put our API key to keep it safe.
Create a `.env` file in the root of your project and paste this code in (and replace `<your_api_key>` with the real one):

```
VITE_STREAM_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
```

With that the basic setup of the project and the Stream SDK is ready and we can dive into the code.

### User Authentication

We won't cover the entire flow of authentication in this guide because we want to focus on the important parts.
You can check the complete flow in the sample app repository, and we'll go through the important API calls now.

The first important step is to initialize the Stream client. Therefore, we need the API key and a token provider.

:::tip
Want to learn why we need the token provider and how it works? See [this page](../../guides/client-auth/#token-providers) for more detail.
:::

First, we can collect the API key from our `.env` file by simply importing it like this:

```
const apiKey = import.meta.env.VITE_STREAM_API_KEY as string;
```

Next, to get a token, we need to create one in our backend. Whenever this expires the SDK will call the token provider again to renew the token.
There are many different ways to solve this. In this example, we create (and - of course - memoize) a function that uses a `user` object in the same component.

```tsx
const tokenProvider = useCallback(async () => {
  const { token } = await fetch(
    '/api/auth/create-token?' +
      new URLSearchParams({
        api_key: apiKey,
        user_id: user.id,
      }),
    {},
  ).then((res) => res.json());
  return token as string;
}, [apiKey, user.id]);
```

Having this we can create a client object:

```tsx
const client = useCreateStreamVideoClient({
  apiKey,
  tokenOrProvider: tokenProvider,
  user,
});
```

Whenever a user hits the login button we can authenticate them using a call to `connectUser`:

```tsx
await client.connectUser(user, user.token);
```

For this to work we need a `User` object which is a simple typescript file with the following properties:

```ts
export interface User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  imageUrl: string;
  token?: string;
}
```

With this, the user will be logged in and authenticated versus the Stream backend.

### Creating rooms via the API

Now that we have user authentication out of our way we can start building up our app.
The first thing we'll do is to allow users to create an audio room where others can then join.

The data model for this needs a few properties. Create a new Typescript file, call it `AudioRoom` and fill it up with this:

```ts
export interface AudioRoom {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  subtitle: string;
  hosts: User[];
  speakers: User[];
  listeners: User[];
  call?: Call;
}
```

Each room will need to have a unique `id` so that it can be identified clearly. It also needs a `title`, and a `subtitle` describing the topic.
These can be gathered through a simple form (find our example [here](TODO: add link) if interested).

We already created the `User` object earlier. We will have 3 different roles in our rooms:

1. `hosts`: they are allowed to start and end rooms; they can also promote `listeners` to the `speakers` roles
2. `speakers`: with that role comes the ability to broadcast audio in the call
3. `listeners`: can join the call and listen but not share their audio; they can ask for permission to speak

The last object in our type is the `Call` itself which is the Stream object with all the attached logic.

Now, after collecting the necessary info (`title` and `description`, maybe a list of hosts) we can create a call on the backend using the following call:

```ts
const randomId = Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 12);
// highlight-next-line
const call = client?.call('audio_room', randomId);
call?.getOrCreate({
  data: {
    // highlight-next-line
    members: [{ user_id: user?.id || '', role: 'admin' }],
    custom: {
      // highlight-start
      audioRoomCall: true,
      title: title,
      description: description,
      hosts: [
        {
          name: user?.name,
          id: user?.id,
          imageUrl: user?.imageUrl,
        },
      ],
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

Let's unpack what's happening here step-by-step.

First, we create a random string and call it `randomId` for the call id.

Then, a new call is created with the `id` and the `audio_room` type. This is a short call but under the hood
does a great amount of configuration. It creates all the necessary settings for the call to allow users
to ask for speaking rights, be audio only, and allow all registered users to join calls (without the ability
to speak per default).

:::note
You can read more on the different call types that we offer and how to configure your own on the `Call Types` [page](../../guides/10-configuring-call-types).
:::

Next, we'll make sure the current user (and others who should have hosting rights) is part of the `members` object.
This is needed to provide them with the necessary admin rights to start/end calls and promote users.

Finally, the `custom` field can be used to add our - well - custom data to the call. We add an `audioRoomCall` variable in there
to identify the calls we want to use (important if we would have other call types in the future).
The rest of this object just contains the data we previously defined so that we can have it available to modify and update.

### Querying calls (with real-time updates)

One of the main screens of the application will be showing a list of the rooms that are available for users to join.

To do this we need to query the backend for a list of the calls and display each of the rooms. Again, we'll not focus on the UI
part since that's different for each use case.

So, let's assume we have a component that stores the rooms in a `rooms` array, so let's define that at the root of the component:

```
const [rooms, setRooms] = useState<AudioRoom[]>([]);
```

Next, querying is fairly easy. Here is the code and we'll go through it afterwards:

```tsx
const client = useStreamVideoClient();
useEffect(() => {
  client
    ?.queryCalls({
      filter_conditions: { audioRoomCall: true },
      sort: [],
      watch: true,
    })
    .then((result) => {
      console.log('Querying calls successful.');
      setRooms(result.calls);
    })
    .catch((err) => {
      console.log('Querying calls failed.');
      console.error(err);
    });
}, [client, setRooms]);
```

We need a reference to the `client` which we conveniently can get with the `useStreamVideoClient` hook.
Then, we call the `.queryCalls` function in a `useEffect` hook. We can specify three things there:

1. `filter_conditions`: we want to only have calls with the `audioRoomCall` property set to true (which we specified earlier)
2. `sort`: we _could_ sort the calls we receive by some logic we want, for simplicity reasons we don't do this here
3. `watch`: this simple, but powerful property gives us the power to listen to real-time changes; whenever a call changes (for example going live) we'll get notified, and our rooms list updates

With that, we're ready to show the list of rooms. You can define that as you like, our example can be found [here](TODO: provider link to `RoomList` file).

### Joining and leaving a room

To join a room, we need the `Call` variable that we attached to the room. With that, we can use the
simple `.join()` and `.leave()` functions on it.

Let's assume we put the call into a new component and use a `useEffect` hook to call `.join()` when it gets mounted:

```tsx
const joinCall = useCallback(async (call: Call) => {
  await call.join();
}, []);

useEffect(() => {
  joinCall();

  return () => {
    call.leave();
  };
});
```

This will tell the SDK to join the room when the component is rendered and with the callback, we return in `useEffect` it will also leave calls when it's unmounted.

Next, to show the room and provide audio output and input we need to wrap the component that does that with two providers:

1. `MediaDevicesProvider`: this one is needed to give access to audio and video devices; it has two parameters, `initialAudioEnabled` and `initialVideoEnabled` which do exactly what they describe.
2. `StreamCallProvider`: it is initialized with a `Call` and provides us with a lot of useful and convenient hooks to have easy access to the necessary call parameters

:::tip
To learn more about the `MediaDevicesProvider` you should check out the [Camera & Microphone](../../guides/camera-and-microphone) guide.
:::

So, if we follow that structure and have a component ready for showing the room that is currently active called `RoomActive` we can render it like this:

```tsx
<MediaDevicesProvider initialAudioEnabled={false} initialVideoEnabled={false}>
  <StreamCallProvider call={call}>
    <RoomActive />
  </StreamCallProvider>
</MediaDevicesProvider>
```

That gives us everything we need to jump into the component that does the real call rendering.

### Building up the UI for a room

Again, we don't want to focus too much on the UI part of it but instead show the concepts of getting access to the necessary data.
And just as a reminder, you can still take a look at the final project [here](TODO: link to project) to get inspiration.

Inside our `RoomActive` component, we need access to a few things. Luckily, the Stream Video SDK exposes hooks for many of
them (which is why we needed to wrap the component in a `StreamVideoProvider`).

We'll use the following hooks inside our component:

```tsx title="RoomActive.tsx"
const call = useCall();
const participants = useParticipants();
const { stopPublishingAudio } = useMediaDevices();
const canSendAudio = useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO);
```

This shows quite a few hooks, so let's quickly go through them:

1. `useCall()`: it gives us access to the call we created in the previous chapters
2. `useParticipants()`: we want to render the list of people in the call, so it's useful to have direct access to them here
3. `useMediaDevices()`: having access to the audio track allows for easy muting of audio
4. `useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO)`: not everyone will have permission to publish their audio track initially; we can check this and allow them to request permission

You can find the entire code for the component [here](TODO: link to RoomActive file). We want to focus on the usage of the components.

First, to render the participants of the call we can use the `.map` function to go through and render an image and their name:

```tsx
<div>
  {participants.map((participant) => (
    <div key={participant.userId}>
      <img src={participant.image} alt={`Profile of ${participant.name}`} />
      <span>{participant.name}</span>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```

This will render the list of participants. If we want to render the speakers, we need to wrap them with the `Audio` element.
It is required to allow for listening to their audio stream.

Here's how to use it:

```tsx
<div>
  {speakers.map((speaker) => (
    <div key={speaker.userId}>
      <Audio muted={false} audioStream={speaker.audioStream} />
      <img src={speaker.image} alt={`Profile of ${speaker.name}`} />
      <span>{speaker.name}</span>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```

:::note
In our example, we filter out the host, speakers, and listeners through the info we save in the `AudioRoom` type.

There's no magic in there, but one useful thing is to check if a participant is sharing audio.

We can do this by checking if `participant.publishedTracks.includes(SfuModels.TrackType.AUDIO)` is `true`.
:::

Next, we want to implement a button to allow the user to mute and un-mute. This requires a few things. We need to check if they are currently sharing their audio and change the button accordingly.

Here's an example how to do this:

```tsx
const currentUser = participants.find((p) => p.userId === user?.id);
const hasAudio = currentUser?.publishedTracks.includes(
  SfuModels.TrackType.AUDIO,
);

/* more code */
<button onClick={() => muteUser()}>{hasAudio ? 'Mute' : 'Unmute'}</button>;
```

:::note
There are different techniques to determine the current user. We are accessing the `userId` through a `UserContext` provider object, but feel free to take different approaches.
:::

Now, the `muteUser()` function also has to check if the user is currently sharing audio.
If yes, we can use the `stopPublishingAudio` function from the `useMediaDevices` hook.
Otherwise, we can get the current audio stream of the user through `getAudioStream()` and then publish it.

Here's the code to do it:

```tsx
async function muteUser() {
  if (hasAudio) {
    stopPublishingAudio();
  } else {
    const audioStream = await getAudioStream();
    await call?.publishAudioStream(audioStream);
  }
}
```

The last thing we want to do is to list know when the call ends. We can use `call.on` to listen to certain events.
In our case, we want to listen to the `call.ended` event.

:::tip
You can find all other event types on the [Socket Events](../../guides/04-socket-events) page.
:::

Here's how to subscribe to it in a `useEffect` (and unsubscribe when the component gets un-mounted):

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on('call.ended', (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
    // replace with your custom leave function
    leave();
  });

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, [call, leave]);
```

With that, we've built up the UI for the audio room itself. The last thing is to handle speaking requests from
both participants' and hosts' sides.

### Managing speaking requests

There are two roles here. The participants want to be able to request permission to speak. We need to identify if a participant can send audio and can request permission.
We can do it like this:

```tsx
const canSendAudio = useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO);
const canRequestSpeakingPermissions = call?.permissionsContext.canRequest(
  OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO,
);
```

Next, the code to request permission is a simple button and a call to `requestPermissions` on the `call` object:

```tsx
<button onClick={() => requestSpeakingPermission()}>Raise hand</button>;

/* more code */
async function requestSpeakingPermission() {
  await call?.requestPermissions({
    permissions: [OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO],
  });
}
```

Same as in the previous chapter, we can listen to new events of type `call.permission_request` to get notified when there's a new request coming in.

We'll track the state of speaking requests in a simple array and use the `useEffect` hook to subscribe to events:

```tsx
const [speakingRequests, setSpeakingRequests] = useState<
  PermissionRequestEvent[]
>([]);

useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on(
    'call.permission_request',
    (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
      const permissionRequest = event as PermissionRequestEvent;

      if (permissionRequest) {
        setSpeakingRequests([...speakingRequests, permissionRequest]);
      }
    },
  );

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, [call]);
```

Now we can render the speaking requests that we have. We'll provide the user with the option to either accept or deny it.

When they accept it, we can update the permissions of the person who requested it like this:

```tsx
await call?.updateUserPermissions({
  user_id: speakingRequest.user.id,
  grant_permissions: [...speakingRequest.permissions],
});
```

When a request is answered we can filter it out of our `speakingRequests` array:

```tsx
function speakingRequestAnswered(speakingRequest: PermissionRequestEvent) {
  const remainingRequests = speakingRequests.filter(
    (r) => r.user.id !== speakingRequest.user.id,
  );
  setSpeakingRequests(remainingRequests);
}
```

The last thing we need to do now is to listen to changes in permission updates. We need to do that because we want
to promote new speakers and allow them to share their audio as well. The same goes for the other way around when a user
no longer has speaking permissions we want to remove them.

Again, we can listen to events, this time of type `call.permissions_updated` and handle accordingly:

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on(
    'call.permissions_updated',
    (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
      const permission_request = event as PermissionRequestEvent;

      if (permission_request) {
        setSpeakerIds([...speakerIds, permission_request.user.id]);
      }
    },
  );

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, []);
```

:::note
In our case we track the speakers in a list called `speakerIds` and filter them accordingly. You can do things differently here.
:::

With that we have built a fully-functional audio rooms application. Great job.

### Summary

In this guide, we've built a great example of how to fully customize the UI of our application by only accessing
the low-level hooks and functions of the call engine.

We've done quite a few things:

- User Authentication
- Creating rooms
- Listening to real-time updates
- Joining and leaving rooms
- Allowing for speaker requests

This is just an example of how to utilize the SDK to tailor it toward your specific use-case.
For more examples check out our [Video Call Tutorial](../video-calling) as well as our [Livestream Tutorial](../livestream).

Let us know the cool things you build with our SDK, we're always happy to learn about them.

Commit message:

docs: add usage of token snippet into Audio Room guide (#638)

packages/react-sdk/docusaurus/docs/React/02-tutorials/02-audio-room.mdx, after:

---
title: Audio Room Tutorial
description: How to build an audio room using Stream's video SDKs
---

import { TokenSnippet } from '../../../shared/_tokenSnippet.jsx';

In this guide, you'll build an audio room experience similar to Twitter Spaces / Clubhouse.

The final result will look like this:

// TODO add sample video

The code for the final result can also be found on GitHub, so if you're only interested in seeing the resulting code, go [here](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-video-ios-examples/tree/main/AudioRooms).

:::note
For the sake of simplicity, the code provided in this guide may be simplified in certain situations. However, there will always be a link to the repository with the full code, so that you'll be able to have a look at that.
:::

Alright, let's get started. Creating this app will require the following steps:

1. Setup the project
2. Describe the login flow
3. Creating rooms via the API
4. Querying calls (with real-time updates)
5. Joining and leaving a room
6. Building up a UI for a room
7. Managing speaking requests

### Setup the project

The first step is to set up a new project. We'll use `vite` to do this, but feel free to use any other tool that you like.

To keep things simple, we'll just work with plain React and Typescript:

```bash
yarn create vite audio-rooms-sample --template react-ts
```

:::note
The entire Stream team loves Typescript. If you're wondering why, consider checking [this post](https://getstream.io/blog/typescript-basics/) about the topic on our Blog.
:::

Next, we install the dependencies for the Stream package:

```bash
yarn add @stream-io/video-react-sdk
```

After that, we can create a new project in the [Stream Dashboard](https://getstream.io/dashboard/). Once logged in, you will be introduced to our dashboard. There you can manage your applications. The app represents Stream's dedicated infrastructure that will handle your app's video calls.
Make sure to [create a video application](TODO: image/gif showing the UI creating the app) in your Stream dashboard. The API key and secret will be generated automatically upon the app's creation. Those are the credentials we will need for authentication.

:::tip
If you don't have a Stream account yet, you can register and try it for free [here](https://getstream.io/try-for-free/).
:::

The last setup step is to create a `.env` file. This is where we will put our API key to keep it safe.
Create a `.env` file in the root of your project and paste this code in (and replace `<your_api_key>` with the real one):

```
VITE_STREAM_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
```

With that the basic setup of the project and the Stream SDK is ready and we can dive into the code.

### User Authentication

We won't cover the entire flow of authentication in this guide because we want to focus on the important parts.
You can check the complete flow in the sample app repository, and we'll go through the important API calls now.

The first important step is to initialize the Stream client. Therefore, we need the API key and a token provider.

:::tip
Want to learn why we need the token provider and how it works? See [this page](../../guides/client-auth/#token-providers) for more detail.
:::

First, we can collect the API key from our `.env` file by simply importing it like this:

```
const apiKey = import.meta.env.VITE_STREAM_API_KEY as string;
```

Next, to get a token, we need to create one in our backend. Whenever this expires the SDK will call the token provider again to renew the token.
There are many different ways to solve this. In this example, we create (and - of course - memoize) a function that uses a `user` object in the same component.

```tsx
const tokenProvider = useCallback(async () => {
  const { token } = await fetch(
    '/api/auth/create-token?' +
      new URLSearchParams({
        api_key: apiKey,
        user_id: user.id,
      }),
    {},
  ).then((res) => res.json());
  return token as string;
}, [apiKey, user.id]);
```

Having this we can create a client object:

```tsx
const client = useCreateStreamVideoClient({
  apiKey,
  tokenOrProvider: tokenProvider,
  user,
});
```

Whenever a user hits the login button we can authenticate them using a call to `connectUser`:

```tsx
await client.connectUser(user, user.token);
```

For this to work we need a `User` object which is a simple typescript file with the following properties:

```ts
export interface User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  imageUrl: string;
  token?: string;
}
```

With this, the user will be logged in and authenticated versus the Stream backend.

Feel free to also use the data from this snippet, so that you can test everything without needing to setup anything on your own:

<TokenSnippet sampleApp="audio-rooms" />

### Creating rooms via the API

Now that we have user authentication out of our way we can start building up our app.
The first thing we'll do is to allow users to create an audio room where others can then join.

The data model for this needs a few properties. Create a new Typescript file, call it `AudioRoom` and fill it up with this:

```ts
export interface AudioRoom {
  id: string;
  title: string;
  subtitle: string;
  hosts: User[];
  speakers: User[];
  listeners: User[];
  call?: Call;
}
```

Each room will need to have a unique `id` so that it can be identified clearly. It also needs a `title`, and a `subtitle` describing the topic.
These can be gathered through a simple form (find our example [here](TODO: add link) if interested).

We already created the `User` object earlier. We will have 3 different roles in our rooms:

1. `hosts`: they are allowed to start and end rooms; they can also promote `listeners` to the `speakers` roles
2. `speakers`: with that role comes the ability to broadcast audio in the call
3. `listeners`: can join the call and listen but not share their audio; they can ask for permission to speak

The last object in our type is the `Call` itself which is the Stream object with all the attached logic.

Now, after collecting the necessary info (`title` and `description`, maybe a list of hosts) we can create a call on the backend using the following call:

```ts
const randomId = Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 12);
// highlight-next-line
const call = client?.call('audio_room', randomId);
call?.getOrCreate({
  data: {
    // highlight-next-line
    members: [{ user_id: user?.id || '', role: 'admin' }],
    custom: {
      // highlight-start
      audioRoomCall: true,
      title: title,
      description: description,
      hosts: [
        {
          name: user?.name,
          id: user?.id,
          imageUrl: user?.imageUrl,
        },
      ],
    },
    // highlight-end
  },
});
```

Let's unpack what's happening here step-by-step.

First, we create a random string and call it `randomId` for the call id.

Then, a new call is created with the `id` and the `audio_room` type. This is a short call but under the hood
does a great amount of configuration. It creates all the necessary settings for the call to allow users
to ask for speaking rights, be audio only, and allow all registered users to join calls (without the ability
to speak per default).

:::note
You can read more on the different call types that we offer and how to configure your own on the `Call Types` [page](../../guides/10-configuring-call-types).
:::

Next, we'll make sure the current user (and others who should have hosting rights) is part of the `members` object.
This is needed to provide them with the necessary admin rights to start/end calls and promote users.

Finally, the `custom` field can be used to add our - well - custom data to the call. We add an `audioRoomCall` variable in there
to identify the calls we want to use (important if we would have other call types in the future).
The rest of this object just contains the data we previously defined so that we can have it available to modify and update.

### Querying calls (with real-time updates)

One of the main screens of the application will be showing a list of the rooms that are available for users to join.

To do this we need to query the backend for a list of the calls and display each of the rooms. Again, we'll not focus on the UI
part since that's different for each use case.

So, let's assume we have a component that stores the rooms in a `rooms` array, so let's define that at the root of the component:

```
const [rooms, setRooms] = useState<AudioRoom[]>([]);
```

Next, querying is fairly easy. Here is the code and we'll go through it afterwards:

```tsx
const client = useStreamVideoClient();
useEffect(() => {
  client
    ?.queryCalls({
      filter_conditions: { audioRoomCall: true },
      sort: [],
      watch: true,
    })
    .then((result) => {
      console.log('Querying calls successful.');
      setRooms(result.calls);
    })
    .catch((err) => {
      console.log('Querying calls failed.');
      console.error(err);
    });
}, [client, setRooms]);
```

We need a reference to the `client` which we conveniently can get with the `useStreamVideoClient` hook.
Then, we call the `.queryCalls` function in a `useEffect` hook. We can specify three things there:

1. `filter_conditions`: we want to only have calls with the `audioRoomCall` property set to true (which we specified earlier)
2. `sort`: we _could_ sort the calls we receive by some logic we want, for simplicity reasons we don't do this here
3. `watch`: this simple, but powerful property gives us the power to listen to real-time changes; whenever a call changes (for example going live) we'll get notified, and our rooms list updates

With that, we're ready to show the list of rooms. You can define that as you like, our example can be found [here](TODO: provider link to `RoomList` file).

### Joining and leaving a room

To join a room, we need the `Call` variable that we attached to the room. With that, we can use the
simple `.join()` and `.leave()` functions on it.

Let's assume we put the call into a new component and use a `useEffect` hook to call `.join()` when it gets mounted:

```tsx
const joinCall = useCallback(async (call: Call) => {
  await call.join();
}, []);

useEffect(() => {
  joinCall();

  return () => {
    call.leave();
  };
});
```

This will tell the SDK to join the room when the component is rendered and with the callback, we return in `useEffect` it will also leave calls when it's unmounted.

Next, to show the room and provide audio output and input we need to wrap the component that does that with two providers:

1. `MediaDevicesProvider`: this one is needed to give access to audio and video devices; it has two parameters, `initialAudioEnabled` and `initialVideoEnabled` which do exactly what they describe.
2. `StreamCallProvider`: it is initialized with a `Call` and provides us with a lot of useful and convenient hooks to have easy access to the necessary call parameters

:::tip
To learn more about the `MediaDevicesProvider` you should check out the [Camera & Microphone](../../guides/camera-and-microphone) guide.
:::

So, if we follow that structure and have a component ready for showing the room that is currently active called `RoomActive` we can render it like this:

```tsx
<MediaDevicesProvider initialAudioEnabled={false} initialVideoEnabled={false}>
  <StreamCallProvider call={call}>
    <RoomActive />
  </StreamCallProvider>
</MediaDevicesProvider>
```

That gives us everything we need to jump into the component that does the real call rendering.

### Building up the UI for a room

Again, we don't want to focus too much on the UI part of it but instead show the concepts of getting access to the necessary data.
And just as a reminder, you can still take a look at the final project [here](TODO: link to project) to get inspiration.

Inside our `RoomActive` component, we need access to a few things. Luckily, the Stream Video SDK exposes hooks for many of
them (which is why we needed to wrap the component in a `StreamVideoProvider`).

We'll use the following hooks inside our component:

```tsx title="RoomActive.tsx"
const call = useCall();
const participants = useParticipants();
const { stopPublishingAudio } = useMediaDevices();
const canSendAudio = useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO);
```

This shows quite a few hooks, so let's quickly go through them:

1. `useCall()`: it gives us access to the call we created in the previous chapters
2. `useParticipants()`: we want to render the list of people in the call, so it's useful to have direct access to them here
3. `useMediaDevices()`: having access to the audio track allows for easy muting of audio
4. `useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO)`: not everyone will have permission to publish their audio track initially; we can check this and allow them to request permission

You can find the entire code for the component [here](TODO: link to RoomActive file). We want to focus on the usage of the components.

First, to render the participants of the call we can use the `.map` function to go through and render an image and their name:

```tsx
<div>
  {participants.map((participant) => (
    <div key={participant.userId}>
      <img src={participant.image} alt={`Profile of ${participant.name}`} />
      <span>{participant.name}</span>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```

This will render the list of participants. If we want to render the speakers, we need to wrap them with the `Audio` element.
It is required to allow for listening to their audio stream.

Here's how to use it:

```tsx
<div>
  {speakers.map((speaker) => (
    <div key={speaker.userId}>
      <Audio muted={false} audioStream={speaker.audioStream} />
      <img src={speaker.image} alt={`Profile of ${speaker.name}`} />
      <span>{speaker.name}</span>
    </div>
  ))}
</div>
```

:::note
In our example, we filter out the host, speakers, and listeners through the info we save in the `AudioRoom` type.

There's no magic in there, but one useful thing is to check if a participant is sharing audio.

We can do this by checking if `participant.publishedTracks.includes(SfuModels.TrackType.AUDIO)` is `true`.
:::

Next, we want to implement a button to allow the user to mute and un-mute. This requires a few things. We need to check if they are currently sharing their audio and change the button accordingly.

Here's an example how to do this:

```tsx
const currentUser = participants.find((p) => p.userId === user?.id);
const hasAudio = currentUser?.publishedTracks.includes(
  SfuModels.TrackType.AUDIO,
);

/* more code */
<button onClick={() => muteUser()}>{hasAudio ? 'Mute' : 'Unmute'}</button>;
```

:::note
There are different techniques to determine the current user. We are accessing the `userId` through a `UserContext` provider object, but feel free to take different approaches.
:::

Now, the `muteUser()` function also has to check if the user is currently sharing audio.
If yes, we can use the `stopPublishingAudio` function from the `useMediaDevices` hook.
Otherwise, we can get the current audio stream of the user through `getAudioStream()` and then publish it.

Here's the code to do it:

```tsx
async function muteUser() {
  if (hasAudio) {
    stopPublishingAudio();
  } else {
    const audioStream = await getAudioStream();
    await call?.publishAudioStream(audioStream);
  }
}
```

The last thing we want to do is to list know when the call ends. We can use `call.on` to listen to certain events.
In our case, we want to listen to the `call.ended` event.

:::tip
You can find all other event types on the [Socket Events](../../guides/04-socket-events) page.
:::

Here's how to subscribe to it in a `useEffect` (and unsubscribe when the component gets un-mounted):

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on('call.ended', (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
    // replace with your custom leave function
    leave();
  });

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, [call, leave]);
```

With that, we've built up the UI for the audio room itself. The last thing is to handle speaking requests from
both participants' and hosts' sides.

### Managing speaking requests

There are two roles here. The participants want to be able to request permission to speak. We need to identify if a participant can send audio and can request permission.
We can do it like this:

```tsx
const canSendAudio = useHasPermissions(OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO);
const canRequestSpeakingPermissions = call?.permissionsContext.canRequest(
  OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO,
);
```

Next, the code to request permission is a simple button and a call to `requestPermissions` on the `call` object:

```tsx
<button onClick={() => requestSpeakingPermission()}>Raise hand</button>;

/* more code */
async function requestSpeakingPermission() {
  await call?.requestPermissions({
    permissions: [OwnCapability.SEND_AUDIO],
  });
}
```

Same as in the previous chapter, we can listen to new events of type `call.permission_request` to get notified when there's a new request coming in.

We'll track the state of speaking requests in a simple array and use the `useEffect` hook to subscribe to events:

```tsx
const [speakingRequests, setSpeakingRequests] = useState<
  PermissionRequestEvent[]
>([]);

useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on(
    'call.permission_request',
    (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
      const permissionRequest = event as PermissionRequestEvent;

      if (permissionRequest) {
        setSpeakingRequests([...speakingRequests, permissionRequest]);
      }
    },
  );

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, [call]);
```

Now we can render the speaking requests that we have. We'll provide the user with the option to either accept or deny it.

When they accept it, we can update the permissions of the person who requested it like this:

```tsx
await call?.updateUserPermissions({
  user_id: speakingRequest.user.id,
  grant_permissions: [...speakingRequest.permissions],
});
```

When a request is answered we can filter it out of our `speakingRequests` array:

```tsx
function speakingRequestAnswered(speakingRequest: PermissionRequestEvent) {
  const remainingRequests = speakingRequests.filter(
    (r) => r.user.id !== speakingRequest.user.id,
  );
  setSpeakingRequests(remainingRequests);
}
```

The last thing we need to do now is to listen to changes in permission updates. We need to do that because we want
to promote new speakers and allow them to share their audio as well. The same goes for the other way around when a user
no longer has speaking permissions we want to remove them.

Again, we can listen to events, this time of type `call.permissions_updated` and handle accordingly:

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const unsubscribe = call?.on(
    'call.permissions_updated',
    (event: StreamCallEvent) => {
      const permission_request = event as PermissionRequestEvent;

      if (permission_request) {
        setSpeakerIds([...speakerIds, permission_request.user.id]);
      }
    },
  );

  return () => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
      unsubscribe();
    }
  };
}, []);
```

:::note
In our case we track the speakers in a list called `speakerIds` and filter them accordingly. You can do things differently here.
:::

With that we have built a fully-functional audio rooms application. Great job.

### Summary

In this guide, we've built a great example of how to fully customize the UI of our application by only accessing
the low-level hooks and functions of the call engine.

We've done quite a few things:

- User Authentication
- Creating rooms
- Listening to real-time updates
- Joining and leaving rooms
- Allowing for speaker requests

This is just an example of how to utilize the SDK to tailor it toward your specific use-case.
For more examples check out our [Video Call Tutorial](../video-calling) as well as our [Livestream Tutorial](../livestream).

Let us know the cool things you build with our SDK, we're always happy to learn about them.
